---
layout: post
title: Free Public Tour Of Swanton Berry Farms On June 13 
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Organic strawberries grown at Swanton Berry  Farms in Santa Cruz County are sought after by strawberry lovers  across northern California.

The public will be treated to a rare consumer-oriented public  tour of Swanton Berry Farms on Sunday, June 12, from noon to 2 p.m.  There is no charge for the tour, and visitors will have an opportunity  to purchase organic strawberries at wholesale prices.

Owner Jim Cochran's five-acre operation is one of the leading  organic strawberry farms in the state. He began growing  strawberries in 1980 and converted to organic growing techniques in  1984\. In partnership with UCSC entomologist Sean Swezey, Cochran  has perfected the use of biological pest-control methods to fight  pests that would otherwise require chemical sprays to control.  Conventionally grown strawberries require an average of $2,000 per  acre in chemicals. Growing strawberries organically is more costly,  but Cochran has tried both methods and prefers organic.

The relatively small size of Cochran's operation allows him to  pay a lot of attention to the flavor and quality of his berries. During  harvest, about ten people work on the farm--eight in production and  two in distribution, says Cochran. "My strawberries are known for  being very flavorful, and they're the strawberries of choice of  diehard aficionados," he says.

The tour is sponsored by the Friends of the UCSC Farm and  Garden. Swanton Berry Farms, which was founded on Swanton Road,  is located on Coast Road off Highway 1. For visitors coming from  Santa Cruz, turn right at Coast Road, which is about five miles north  of town at the 25.16 mile road marker. For those coming from San  Francisco, make a left turn at Coast Road, which is about four miles  south of Davenport at the 25.30 road marker. Go under the silver  pipe, up the hill, and make the first left turn onto a dirt road. Park  near the old farm buildings. For more information, call the  Agroecology Program at (408) 459-4140.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/05-94/052094-Free_public_tour_of.html "Permalink to 052094-Free_public_tour_of")
