---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Names C. James Quann To New Post Created To Bolster Student Recruitment And Retention
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--C. James Quann has been appointed interim  associate vice chancellor for enrollment management at the  University of California, Santa Cruz, in a move designed to bolster  efforts to recruit and retain students.

The appointment, which was announced by Executive Vice  Chancellor R. Michael Tanner and Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs  Francisco J. Hernandez, took effect September 1. In his new position,  Quann will oversee and coordinate the activities of Admissions,  Financial Aid, the Office of the Registrar, and Student Affirmative  Action and Educational Opportunity Programs.

"We have asked Jim Quann to work closely with campus deans  and academic leaders to coordinate enrollment functions with the  academic divisions," said Tanner. "Other universities have used  similar arrangements to increase the recruitment and retention of  students on their campuses. Close coordination of the four  enrollment-related offices is a particularly important element of  our effort to enhance diversity at UCSC. We look forward to working  with Jim on this important endeavor."

For Quann, the new position represents an opportunity to work  with key campus units and individuals as UCSC reaches out to first- year and transfer students. "I'd like to bring these units together  with input from deans, unit heads, and faculty, to form a working  relationship with greater cooperation and a team approach as we  seek to put the collective best foot of the campus forward," said  Quann.

Quann will report to Hernandez. During the past year, Quann has  served as interim vice chancellor for student affairs in addition to  his position as registrar. He will continue to serve as registrar.

Quann has accepted the position of interim associate vice  chancellor for enrollment management for the 1994-95 academic  year only. A national search for a permanent associate vice  chancellor will begin this fall.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/09-94/092994-UCSC_creates_new_po.html "Permalink to 092994-UCSC_creates_new_po")
