---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Tip Sheet September 1994
author: [Robert Irion, Jennifer McNulty]
---

**Astronomy**

Keck and HIRES take the temperature of a much younger universe

The Keck Telescope and its main observing tool, the high- resolution spectrograph (HIRES), are proving their power with  precise measurements of astronomical objects previously beyond  reach. The latest coup: a reading of the universe's temperature when  it was only about one-fourth of its current age.

University of Hawaii astronomers teamed with UCSC's Steven  Vogt, designer of HIRES, and others to examine carbon atoms in a  distant cloud of gas. The cloud, invisible from earth, lies between  earth and an even more remote quasar. Atoms and molecules in the  cloud absorb parts of the quasar's light, leaving a faint spectral  fingerprint that Keck and HIRES can discern. In particular, some  carbon atoms change their structures slightly in response to the  universe's background glow, revealing the temperature around the  cloud.

Today, that background temperature is about 2.7 K (2.7 degrees  above absolute zero). At the enormous distance of the gas cloud-- closer in time to the universe's fiery birth--the temperature was  about 7.4 K, the researchers found. That meshes nicely with the Big  Bang theory, which predicts a temperature of about 7.6 K at the  cloud's redshift of 1.776. However, other cosmological models  predict a similar warmth at that distance. The predictions of  various theories diverge only at much greater distances, when the  universe was younger and warmer still.

"This was right on, but we'd like to get out to a redshift of 3 or  4--we might be able to distinguish among cosmological models at  that point," says Vogt. He and his collaborators published their  results in the September 1 issue of Nature. Contact: Steven Vogt--(408) 459-2151 or vogt@lick.ucsc.edu.

**Speech Comprehension**

Lab explores the role of visible cues in speech with computerized  "talking head"

Spoken language is a universal means of communication, yet  relatively little is known about how people comprehend speech.  Auditory cues clearly play a role, with variables such as pitch,  duration, and loudness contributing to the understanding of verbal  messages. But researchers at UCSC are exploring another aspect of  verbal communication: visible speech. Led by psychologist Dominic  Massaro, the team is investigating the critical role played by what  we see when we listen, as well as what we hear.

Massaro's team has developed sophisticated computer  technology to study how people perceive and recognize speech by eye  and how they combine these perceptions with what they hear. The  centerpiece: a computerized "talking head" that produces synthetic  speech, enabling researchers to isolate visual and auditory cues  received by listeners.

The 3-D computerized image resembles a mannequin, with  eyes, brows, and mouth that move in real time. The underlying grid  allows researchers to control about 60 parameters to animate the  face and create the movements of speech. Using the computer to  produce auditory synthetic speech gives the researchers control that  is not always possible with natural speech. The animated face  allows them to manipulate the precise movements of the face-- including jaw, lips and tongue--that make up the visible components  of speech. Synthetic speech also allows researchers to produce novel  sounds or ambiguous syllables--precisely halfway between "ba" and  "da," for example.

"You've probably heard elderly friends say that they hear the  television better with their glasses on," says Massaro. "That's  because visual cues are important to our ability to understand  speech." Potential applications of the talking head include visual  aids for the hearing impaired. Contact: Dominic Massaro--(408) 459-2330 or  massaro@fuzzy.ucsc.edu.

**Environmental Policy**

Recycled-paper mills produce fewer toxics than mills using virgin  wood

Producing recycled paper is dramatically cleaner for the  environment than making paper products from virgin-wood fiber,  according to a study by Daniel Press, environmental policy analyst at  UCSC. Press found that relative to mills using virgin wood, recycled- paper mills generate a fraction of the toxic substances such as  chlorine, chloroform, ammonia, acids, and solvents that are  commonly released in paper manufacturing.

Although the number of mills producing recycled paper remains  relatively small industrywide, the environmental impact of paper  manufacturing could be greatly improved through the use of  recovered wastepaper, Press concluded. He based his study on data  reported to the Environmental Protection Agency by pulp and paper  manufacturers from 1987 to 1992.

"The pulp and paper industry has been one of the dirtiest  industries in the country," says Press, who spoke September 1 at a  meeting of the American Political Science Association in New York.  "This study confirms the problems faced by the industry, but it also  shows the enormous improvement that is possible with new  technology and manufacturing processes."

Press studied self-reported statistics for pulp mills and  integrated mills, which produce both paper and pulp. When he  compared the toxics produced per 100 tons of finished product--a  small mill's typical daily output--he found that integrated mills  using recycled paper released 3 to 100 times fewer pounds of toxics  on average than mills using virgin wood. For instance, integrated  mills using recycled paper released 0.1 pounds of chlorine on  average for every 100 tons of product, versus 4.2 pounds for  integrated mills using virgin wood and 10.6 pounds for pulp mills  using virgin wood. For every chemical on the EPA list, recycled- paper mills were "cleaner" than virgin-wood mills. Contact: Daniel Press--(408) 459-3263 or dpress@cats.ucsc.edu.

**Environmental Toxicology**

Controls of lead emissions, especially ban on leaded gas, help to  clean the ocean

Ocean waters at the border between California and Mexico  contained far less lead in the late 1980s than in the mid 1970s  despite substantial increases in population and sewage disposal,  according to research by UCSC scientists.

Geochemists Sergio Sanudo-Wilhelmy and Russell Flegal found  three times less lead in seawater collected at the border in 1988  than other researchers had measured near the same spot in 1973.  They attribute this decline to strict controls in the U.S. over lead  emissions into the environment, especially the ban against leaded  gasoline.

The team's study also reveals that further down the coast of  Baja California, most of the lead in the water comes not from the  U.S. but from increasing Mexican emissions. Although the levels of  lead in the ocean are now low, they could rise off Mexico and in  other parts of the globe as developing countries burn more and more  leaded gas, the researchers warn.

"Industrialized countries are controlling their release of lead  into the environment, and it's having an effect--the ocean is  responding and cleaning itself over very short time scales," says  Sanudo-Wilhelmy. "But we don't know what the effects will be from  Third World countries. Their lead inputs could start being more of a  problem." Sanudo-Wilhelmy and Flegal published their findings in the  August issue of the journal "Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta."  Contacts: Sergio Sanudo-Wilhelmy--(516) 632-8615 or Russell  Flegal--(408) 459-2093 (no email).

**History Of Science**

New research examines the progress of scientific insight by Newton  and Hooke

How much did Isaac Newton know, and when did he know it?  Although Newton is one of history's most famous scientists, the  answers are not always clear. More than 300 years after he wrote  his Principia, the foundation for much of modern science, historians  still disagree about how Newton progressed from the mythical  falling apple to his laws of motion and gravitation. Related  questions exist about Robert Hooke, a remarkable scientist and  contemporary of Newton whose ideas may have contributed to  Newton's success.

Now, UCSC physicist Michael Nauenberg has joined this debate.  Nauenberg examined bits of evidence that other historians have not  appreciated fully: original diagrams by Newton and Hooke. He has  shown that two obscure diagrams in particular, one by each  scientist, reveal a wealth of details about the extent and time frame  of their understanding of how planets orbit the sun.

According to Nauenberg, one diagram--seemingly drawn  sloppily in the margin of a letter from Newton to Hooke--shows that  Newton may have understood orbital dynamics earlier than  historians have assumed, at least eight years before he published  the Principia in 1687. The other, an apparent forest of lines and arcs  that Hooke never published, may point to a deeper and more accurate  knowledge of orbital motions than historians have credited to Hooke.

"Newton has always been an enigma," says Nauenberg. "When I  came upon this diagram and looked for an explanation of how he  could have derived it, I kept running into blank walls. The second  diagram, by Hooke, was a total revelation to me. According to  historians of science, Hooke was not supposed to have possessed  these insights at all." Nauenberg's work, still in progress, appeared  in three different journal articles earlier this year. Contact: Michael Nauenberg--(408) 459-2736 or  michael@mike.ucsc.edu.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/09-94/093094-UC_Santa_Cruz_tip_s.html "Permalink to 093094-UC_Santa_Cruz_tip_s")
