---
layout: post
title: Biotech Training Grant To Benefit UC Santa Cruz Graduate Students
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Biotechnology is a growing and exciting field,  especially in the area of drug design and research. From finding  potential drugs in nature to determining how existing drugs work,  from making compounds in the lab to inventing molecules on a  computer, this aspect of biotechnology holds great promise for  improving our health.

Now, thanks to a $150,000 training grant, graduate students in  chemistry at UC Santa Cruz will gain a more thorough exposure to  this dynamic field. The goal is to prepare the students for  biotechnology careers in either academia or industry.

The grant, one of seven given to University of California  campuses this year, was awarded by the UC Systemwide  Biotechnology Research and Education Program. Starting in January,  it will support graduate students in the labs of seven faculty  members in UCSC's Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. The  department will receive $75,000 a year for two years to pay tuition  and fees for some students, help them travel to scientific meetings,  bring in guest speakers, and establish a series of visits to  biotechnology companies.

"We have all of the elements of research at a modern  biotechnology company in place here at UCSC," says Professor Phillip  Crews. "Students will get an advance snapshot of biotechnology as a  whole by participating in this grant."

Crews and Professor Anthony Fink are the program's  codirectors. Other faculty members whose students will benefit are  Professors Pradip Mascharak and Todd Wipke, Associate Professors  Joseph Konopelski and Glenn Millhauser, and Assistant Professor  Sheila David.

Crews and Fink view the grant as a way to strengthen a  unifying theme that already exists among the labs of the seven  scientists. "All of our approaches aim either directly or indirectly  toward the development of new drugs," Fink says. Thumbnail  sketches of some of that research reveal a common thread:
* Crews and his students scour the South Pacific for marine  organisms whose tissues harbor active compounds, determine the  chemical structures of the compounds, and test them against cells  that cause cancer and other diseases.
* Fink's group studies why some bacteria are resistant to  antibiotics and attempts to develop new compounds that can  overcome this resistance.
* Students under David and Mascharak explore the interaction  of drugs with DNA and RNA, the genetic substances that allow cells  to multiply, including disease cells.
* In Konopelski's lab, students devise ways to create  bioactive compounds from scratch, particularly anticancer drugs  found in tiny amounts in nature.
* Wipke's team uses a sophisticated computer program,  inventon, to design entirely new compounds that could improve upon  current drugs.

"The whole process of developing a bioactive compound that  has some clinical use occurs in all of these layers," says Crews. He  emphasizes that most of the biotechnology research at UCSC occurs  at a very basic level. Although the research may not lead directly to  a new miracle drug on the shelf, he says, it lays the groundwork for  chemists and pharmacologists elsewhere.

Fink believes that the meetings and activities planned for  students under the training grant will foster their intellectual  growth and increase collaboration among the labs. "It builds upon one  of UCSC's hallmarks," says Fink: "mentorship and a close relationship  among researchers and students at all levels."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/11-94/112994-Biotech_training_gr.html "Permalink to 112994-Biotech_training_gr")
