---
layout: post
title: Robert Kraft Of UCSC To Head World's Foremost Astronomical Society
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The executive committee of the International  Astronomical Union (IAU) has selected astronomer Robert P. Kraft,  former director of the UC Observatories/Lick Observatory and  professor emeritus at UC Santa Cruz, as the new president-elect of  the IAU. Committee members announced their decision today (August  24) at the IAU's general assembly in The Hague, Netherlands.

Kraft will serve as president-elect until 1997, president from  1997 to 2000, and past president from 2000 to 2003. He will  become just the fifth American astronomer elevated to the  presidency in the IAU's 75-year history.

"It is a great honor to join this list of famous names that have  presided over the IAU," says Kraft. The first American IAU president,  he notes, also was a Lick Observatory director: W. W. Campbell, who  served from 1922 to 1925. Kraft adds that another American  president of the IAU--noted astronomer Otto Struve (1952-55)-- was his major professor while Kraft was a graduate student at UC  Berkeley.

Kraft is no stranger to the upper echelons of the IAU, having  served as one of the union's six vice presidents from 1982 to 1988.  In his new role he will help oversee the operations of the union,  which has some 7,300 members in 61 countries. Founded in Brussels  in 1919 and now headquartered in Paris, the IAU develops, promotes,  and safeguards the interests of astronomy through international  cooperation. Several dozen IAU commissions, each with its own  president, coordinate research efforts worldwide in various fields.  All members convene triennially at the general assemblies.

Among many career accomplishments, Kraft is perhaps best  known for demonstrating that all novae and dwarf novae are special  types of binary stars, in which one star's atmosphere overflows onto  the surface of a compact companion, such as a white dwarf, and  periodically explodes. He also showed that when a star like the sun  reaches a certain age, it spins slower and slower as a solar wind  removes material from the star and carries away angular momentum.  In recent years Kraft has conducted detailed studies of the  compositions of stars, especially within the vast groupings called  globular clusters. He has shown that a dredging up of material from  the deep interiors of many of these stars changes the observed  abundances of carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen to an unexpected degree.

Kraft, 67, earned his B.S. and M.S. in mathematics from the  University of Washington and his Ph.D. in astronomy from UC  Berkeley. He rose to prominence in the 1960s as an astronomer at  the Mt. Wilson and Palomar Observatories in Pasadena. In 1967, Kraft  came to Lick Observatory and UCSC. Soon thereafter, he was elected  to both the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy  of Arts and Sciences, and he served as president of the American  Astronomical Society from 1974 to 1976. Kraft headed Lick  Observatory as acting director for brief periods in the late 1960s  and early 1970s and as director from 1981 to 1991. During his  tenure he contributed to the UC effort to bring about the W. M. Keck  Observatory on Mauna Kea, now home to the world's largest optical  telescope. He retired from UCSC as professor of astronomy and  astrophysics in 1992 but maintains an active research program.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/08-94/082494-Robert_Kraft_to_hea.html "Permalink to 082494-Robert_Kraft_to_hea")
