---
layout: post
title: Physics On A Shoestring&#58; Creative Experiment Tests 40-Year-Old Theory
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--It seems that today's research in particle physics  takes tens of years, hundreds of researchers, and millions--if not  billions--of dollars. But that's not always true. Just ask the 11  researchers who spent about $10,000 on a clever experiment that  lasted a few months--and supported a theory that physicists had not  tested rigorously for 40 years.

Not only that, but the experiment needed no expensive  allotment of time on a particle collider. It "parasitized" a larger  operation by using particles that researchers normally throw away.

Physicists at the University of California, Santa Cruz, led the  trend-bucking experiment, known as E-146, at the Stanford Linear  Accelerator Center (SLAC) last year. E-146 measured an odd  interaction among particles that happens over the extraordinarily  large distance (for particle physics) of up to a millimeter.

Probing the interaction was not just an academic exercise.  "This effect was predicted in the 1950s," says the E-146 spokesman,  postdoctoral researcher Spencer Klein of UCSC's Santa Cruz Institute  for Particle Physics. "Given the state of accelerators and particle  physics at that time, it was purely theoretical. But now physics has  grown up, and it's relevant in a number of areas."

For instance, physicists must account for the effect when they  design detectors to measure energies in new particle colliders, study  showers of particles caused by cosmic rays slamming into the  atmosphere, or theorize about reactions inside stars and  supernovas. Similar effects occur when a subatomic particle travels  through an atomic nucleus.

The phenomenon is called the "LPM effect," after Landau,  Pomeranchuk, and Migdal--the Russian theorists who proposed it in  1953\. It occurs when an electron zips through matter, reacts with a  nucleus, and loses energy in the form of a gamma ray. The electron  is so fleeting that the interaction transfers a vanishingly small  amount of momentum to some of the particles. As a result, the  uncertainty about exactly where the interaction occurs is very large,  because of a rule of quantum mechanics called the Heisenberg  Uncertainty Principle. That uncertain zone--the distance it takes for  the electron and the gamma ray to assume separate identities--is as  long as a millimeter in some cases.

If lots of other atomic nuclei are around, as is the case in  dense materials, they can disturb the electrons while they are in the  uncertain zone. That suppresses the reaction and reduces the  number of gamma rays that otherwise would emerge.

Other workers have detected the LPM effect, but only  qualitatively. According to Klein, E-146 measured it 100 times more  accurately.

The team's electron beams streamed into thin targets of  carbon, aluminum, iron, tungsten, gold, lead, and uranium. The  decline in gamma rays was barely noticeable with carbon, which is  not dense. But as the materials got heavier, the effect grew more  pronounced. For all elements, the results matched those predicted  by the Russian theorists very closely.

E-146 marked the first successful use of a "parasitic beam" at  SLAC. In a normal run, thick absorbers strip stray particles from the  accelerator beam and dump them, removing about 10 percent of all  particles. Klein and his colleagues devised a way to capture those  particles and convert them into the high-energy electrons they  needed.

"We were approved for two weeks of dedicated beam time at  SLAC for this project, but we didn't need it," Klein says. "Effectively,  we got something for nothing." Other physicists hope to adopt this  approach more often at SLAC.

E-146 required virtually no new equipment. The major energy- measuring device, for instance, was built by UCSC researchers in  1984\. Most electronics and other components dated from the 1970s  and 1980s. Team members proposed the project in June 1992, were  testing the beam by January 1993, and took data in March and April  1993\. They discussed results at meetings last summer and now are  writing papers for physics journals.

Collaborators include researchers from SLAC, Lawrence  Livermore National Laboratory, and American University. Klein's  coworkers at UCSC are postdoctoral researcher Linda Kelley and  former research physicist Matteo Cavalli-Sforza.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/05-94/051894-Creative_experiment.html "Permalink to 051894-Creative_experiment")
