---
layout: post
title: Research With Keck Telescope Strengthens Case For Dark  Matter In Tiny But Common Galaxies
author: Robert Irion
---

**Study Extends The Classes Of Objects In Which Astronomers Have  Detected Dark Matter**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Astronomers have long suspected that dark  matter, the mysterious material composing most of the mass in the  universe, envelops galaxies and clusters of galaxies in tenuous  shrouds. Now, they have found strong clues that dark matter also  exists in a far smaller object: a dwarf galaxy in orbit around our  Milky Way.

A team of researchers used the powerful W. M. Keck Telescope  in Hawaii to chart the motions of individual stars in the tiny galaxy  Leo II, some 720,000 light-years from earth. The rapid motions of  the stars led the team to conclude that Leo II contains about six  times more mass than meets the eye. Without the gravitational pull  from the unseen mass, stars moving that quickly would escape the  galaxy altogether.

Some astronomers believe that dark matter also lurks in other  nearby dwarf galaxies, which dot space near the Milky Way like  moths around a lamp. Others argue that the motions of stars in those  galaxies might arise from tidal forces generated by the Milky Way's  gravitational field. However, Leo II is so distant--more than twice  as far from the Milky Way as most other dwarfs--that researchers  have ruled out tidal forces as an explanation for the stars' motions.

"This is the first study to nail down the hypothesis that dwarf  galaxies have large amounts of dark matter," says lead author Steven  Vogt, professor of astronomy and astrophysics at the University of  California, Santa Cruz. "This result has significant implications for  cosmology, because dwarfs are among the most common galaxies. If  they all contain dark matter, they may contribute an unexpectedly  large amount of total mass to the universe."

Vogt and three colleagues will publish their study in the  January 1995 Astronomical Journal. His coauthors are Mario Mateo,  assistant professor of astronomy at the University of Michigan;  Edward Olszewski, associate astronomer at Steward Observatory,  University of Arizona; and Michael Keane, graduate student at UC  Santa Cruz. Mateo and Olszewski brought years of dwarf-galaxy  research experience to their collaboration with Vogt and Keane.

Eight well-known dwarf galaxies, called "dwarf spheroidal  galaxies" by astronomers, orbit around the Milky Way. A ninth was  spotted close to the Milky Way's center earlier this year. The dwarfs  are unspectacular conglomerations that barely register as smudges  on old photographic plates; each contains perhaps one to ten million  stars. Leo II, discovered in 1950, is one of the most remote of the  dwarfs--fully one-third as far away as the gigantic Andromeda  Galaxy but yet still bound to the Milky Way.

To search for signs of dark matter in the dwarfs, astronomers  use spectrographs to examine how quickly their stars move. Dark  lines in the spectra of many stars shift either toward the blue or the  red end of the spectrum, revealing that each star is moving toward  or away from earth. Many such observations yield an average picture  of the motions in a swarm of stars. Just as cars can drive faster on  a steeply banked curve, stars can orbit more quickly in a strong  gravitational field. Thus, speedy motions point to a massive galaxy,  while slower motions indicate less total mass. In this manner,  astronomers including Mateo and Olszewski have found that most of  the Milky Way's dwarf galaxies seem to contain much more mass  than is apparent in their visible stars alone.

However, there are complications. Astronomers use red giant  stars for this research because they are the brightest and hence  easiest stars to see. The atmospheres of some red giants are  unstable; their pulsations can create the illusion of rapid motions in  space. To address that concern, the Leo II researchers chose only  stable but much fainter red giants. Further, some stars revolve  around other stars in binary systems, producing yet another kind of  motion. The team used computer simulations and long-term  observations of red giants in other dwarf galaxies to show that the  small number of binaries they might have observed in Leo II would  barely affect their results.

In addition, some researchers claim that the Milky Way inflicts  serious tidal pulls on its nearby dwarf companions. Stars on the near  side of each galaxy feel a stronger tug toward the Milky Way than  those on the far side. Astronomers disagree about whether the  resulting motions of stars would swamp a dark-matter signature.  The minuscule tidal forces on Leo II, however, could not possibly  account for the stellar motions seen by the team.

"With information about only one dwarf spheroidal, you can  find ways to wiggle out of dark matter," says Olszewski. "With  knowledge of each additional system, wiggling becomes harder. But  Leo II provides a very clean test of the dark-matter hypothesis for  dwarf spheroidals, because it's so far from the Milky Way."

Leo II is so distant, in fact, that its individual stars are  beyond the pale of all telescopes except the ten-meter Keck. To get  the precise measurements needed, the team used the High- Resolution Echelle Spectrograph (HIRES), designed by Vogt and built  at the UCO/Lick Observatory shops at UC Santa Cruz. HIRES produces  exquisitely detailed spectra, for it contains the largest lenses and  gratings of any spectrograph. Thanks to the telescope's light- gathering power, difficult observations that require heroic efforts  at other observatories are routine with HIRES.

"These observations were not even a challenge for Keck," says  Mateo. "We were ecstatic that we got such a large sample of stars so  fast. Keck and HIRES are letting astronomers do science that they  had thought was unfeasible in their lifetimes."

The team obtained spectra of 31 red giants in Leo II during  several hours of observations on the nights of March 19-21, 1994.  Most stars needed only 10-minute exposures; a few exposures ran to  20 minutes.

The final result was a "velocity dispersion"--a statistical  measure of how quickly stars move within a galaxy. If Leo II  contained no dark matter, the astronomers would have expected a  velocity dispersion of about 2.5 kilometers per second. Instead, they  found a dispersion of 6.7 kilometers per second, with a margin of  error of about 15 percent. That is not as high as the value seen in  some other dwarf galaxies, but still solid evidence that dark matter  composes about 85 percent of Leo II's mass.

The role that dwarf galaxies and their halos of dark matter  might play in the universe is not clear. Because stars in dwarfs are  spread out, the galaxies are quite faint and difficult to find. Some  astronomers argue that dwarfs may outnumber all other galaxies in  the universe by a factor of 10, 100, or even more. In addition, it  appears that more dwarfs existed in the past. Over time, the Milky  Way and other large galaxies may cannibalize these stragglers and  absorb the dark matter into their own enormous halos of material.

"Dwarf spheroidals are an extreme class of galaxy, and many of  them might not be visible at all," Mateo comments. "If they are a lot  more common than we think, they could become an important mass  component of the universe without contributing much light." So far,  he notes, all dwarfs seem to contain about the same amount of dark  matter: a mass equal to tens of millions of suns. Further, their dark  matter must be of the "cold" variety--heavy and sluggishly moving  material. Because of their relatively weak gravitational fields,  dwarfs could not capture neutrinos or other fast-moving "hot" dark  matter.

The team is now pondering whether to examine other distant  dwarfs--such as those around the Andromeda Galaxy--in the same  way. Meanwhile, Mateo and Olszewski are conducting more detailed  studies of stellar motions in some of the Milky Way's dwarfs.

The W. M. Keck Observatory is operated by the California  Association for Research in Astronomy, a partnership of the  University of California and the California Institute of Technology.  Both Mateo and Olszewski were supported by grants from the  National Science Foundation.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/12-94/121694-Research_with_Keck_.html "Permalink to 121694-Research_with_Keck_")
