---
layout: post
title: Twelve Students From Regional Community Colleges Receive  $20,000 Scholarships To Attend UC Santa Cruz
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Twelve outstanding community college transfer  students have received Leadership Opportunity Awards that will  enable them to complete their undergraduate education at the  University of California, Santa Cruz. Recipients receive $10,000  scholarships for each of two years, as well as assistance finding  paid summer work experience in a field that complements their  academic studies and the support of a strong academic mentoring  program.

The awards were established last year to recognize talented  students who have overcome adverse socioeconomic circumstances,  have a demonstrated commitment to assisting and improving the  lives of others, and who might not otherwise be able to attend UC  Santa Cruz for financial reasons. Several students are nominated by  the presidents of each of thirteen regional community colleges, and  recipients are selected by Chancellor Karl S. Pister in consultation  with the Leadership Opportunity Awards Advisory Committee. The  inaugural recipients enrolled at UCSC last fall.

"This program helps ensure that each year a group of  community college students with leadership potential will have the  opportunity to attend UC Santa Cruz," says Pister. "This year's  recipients will have the added benefit of the inaugural class of LOA  scholars, who will be available as mentors. In addition, the program  is providing a new opportunity to strengthen academic ties between  UCSC and our neighboring community colleges."

This year's recipients are:

* Carol Arp of Santa Clara, Mission College
* Jason Beckwith of Redwood City, Canada College
* Jamie M. Forrest of San Jose, West Valley College
* Luz P. Garcia of Salinas, Hartnell College
* Kristy L. Groel of Seaside, Monterey Peninsula College
* Leah Patrice Hunt of Gilroy, Gavilan College
* Michael A. Johnson of San Jose, Evergreen Valley College
* Mark Lucas of San Jose, San Jose City College
* Janeen Erin Malatesta of South San Francisco, College of San Mateo
* Ryan Mayfield of Daly City, Skyline College
* Soonya Shefayee of Mountain View, Foothill College
* Carmen Youpa of Santa Cruz, Cabrillo College

Up to thirteen recipients will be selected each year, and each  recipient will gain valuable work experience through paid summer  jobs that are cosponsored by private- and public-sector  employers. Last year's recipients, who recently finished their first  year at UCSC, have arranged summer internships with IBM, the Santa  Clara County Office of Education, the City of Watsonville, the Yo  Puedo Program of the Monterey County Office of Education, and other  organizations.

The program has been praised by the presidents of the  participating community colleges, and Pister expressed his  appreciation to the members of the LOA Advisory Committee, who in  addition to participating in the review of potential recipients, help  LOA scholars secure summer positions, and assist with fund-raising.  "This vital program would not be possible without the dedication of  these hardworking volunteers," said Pister.

A $5 million endowment is being established to permanently  fund the Leadership Opportunity Awards. Significant new gifts  received during the past year include contributions from Diane and  Don Cooley, who established the Thomas B. Porter Scholarship, and  Ethel Curtis, who funded the Sally J. Hammond Scholarship.

Biographical information about the 1994--95 recipients  follows. For more information, call the UCSC Public Information  Office at (408) 459-2495.

Carol Arp, Santa Clara: A psychology major, Arp is the single mother  of three daughters. The first person in her family to attend college,  Arp says she always wanted to go to school but put off her education  because she didn't think she would succeed. She enrolled at Mission  College in the fall of 1991 and has earned honors every semester.  She wants to pursue a career in psychology because she has  experienced the difference personal growth can make in building  self-confidence and self-esteem. "Even though I was raised during a  time when women were doing new things, I somehow thought that  didn't apply to me," says Arp, now 36. "I want my daughters to know  they have a choice."

Jason Beckwith, Redwood City: A talented magician who has  supported himself teaching and performing magic since he left home  and school at the age of 15, Beckwith recently rekindled an interest  in computers that he discovered during fifth grade. He continued to  work full-time in magic while pursuing studies at Canada College.  Beckwith, 23, is eager to plunge into the world of computer science,  but he says magic will always be a hobby. "Children's eyes light up  when they see a miracle happen in front of them," says Beckwith,  who performs benefit shows for hospitals and other groups.

Jamie Forrest, San Jose: Thirteen years after she dropped out of high  school, Forrest enrolled at West Valley College, becoming the first  person in her family to go to college. The divorced mother of two,  Forrest earned a 4.0 GPA and was selected valedictorian this spring.  She plans to be a lawyer and will major in legal studies at UCSC. "I  wanted to become educated. I always dreamed about going back to  school," says Forrest, who is 32. "I love learning. It thrills me. If you  do what you love, success follows."

Luz Garcia, Salinas: For Garcia, enrolling at UCSC represents a  second opportunity to make her dream of a university education  come true. As she finished high school three years ago, Garcia  reluctantly turned down four offers from UC campuses--with full  financial-aid packages--in order to care for her newborn son. Now,  Garcia says her dream is within reach. "At first it was an impossible  dream because I didn't have my parents' support," says Garcia, who is  the first in her family to complete an elementary school education.  "It's amazing. My teachers who knew me back then didn't think I  could do it, but here I am going to a four-year university." Garcia,  22, plans to major in biology and hopes to go on to medical school.

Kristy Groel, Seaside: A psychology major, Groel became interested  in the field after volunteering with children. "I've always thought  people are the most interesting puzzle to try to piece together,"  says Groel. "I've always wanted to figure out why people do what  they do." The first in her family to attend college, Groel, 20, has  worked her way through school as a water safety instructor. She  hopes to earn her doctorate in psychology. Groel is also active in the  community, helping elementary school children with reading,  writing, and math, and volunteering on a Christmas toy drive for  children and with the Oldemeyer Youth Center in Seaside.

Leah P. Hunt, Gilroy: Hunt was drawn to the field of psychology when  she worked as a nurse's assistant at a psychiatric hospital. She  enrolled at Mission College in San Jose and earned a license in  psychiatric technology, graduating as valedictorian. As a student at  Gavilan College, Hunt was a member of the honor society and  president of the Associated Student Body. Self-supporting since the  age of 17, Hunt has worked while pursuing her educational goals,  including five years in her current field. Hunt, 24, has also  volunteered with a nonprofit organization that works with children  who are dependents of the court.

Michael Johnson, San Jose: Johnson's high school career was  thwarted by family problems that ruined his concentration. At the  age of 16, Johnson dropped out and moved in with his girlfriend's  family. It was a fortuitous move because his girlfriend's father  became a mentor, stressing the importance of education,  particularly after Johnson accompanied the family on a move six  years ago from Florida to California. Johnson returned to school in  1988 and majored in molecular biology at Evergreen Valley College  in anticipation of a career in cancer research. Johnson, now 23, is  vice president of AFFIRM, a support program that encourages  African-American students to stay in school.

Mark Lucas, San Jose: Lucas enrolled at San Jose City College three  years ago, following several years of painful rehabilitation from  severe burns suffered in a house fire. The works of some of the great  philosophers, particularly Socrates, had a profound impact on Lucas.  "Socrates had the biggest influence on me because he was so pure of  heart," says Lucas. "He had a very strong spirit and didn't care what  others thought about him. He did what he felt was right. I like that  type of thinking. He had a quest for knowledge and truth that was  emotionally moving for me." In addition to school, Lucas is involved  in developing a specialized multimedia computer system, promoting  motorcycle racing, and other entrepreneurial projects. Lucas enjoys  serving as a role model for young people; he visits elementary  schools to encourage students to stay in school and avoid drugs, he  has helped raise funds for the Lake County Big Brothers and Big  Sisters Foundation, and last year he helped organize a book drive for  the Eastside Youth Center in San Jose.

Janeen Malatesta, South San Francisco: It has been Malatesta's dream  to attend a four-year university, and she chose UC Santa Cruz after  also being accepted at UC Berkeley and UC Davis, where she was  offered a $12,000 scholarship. She has supported herself at the  College of San Mateo, where she was student body president, by  working 20 hours a week as a cashier at Costco. Malatesta, 20, plans  to major in literature and biology, with an emphasis on wildlife  biology. She loves literature because "it's about people's lives, and it  encompasses history. It brings everything together." Biology  appeals to her because it is less abstract and conceptual, says  Malatesta, who plans to be a high school teacher and writer.

Ryan Mayfield, Daly City: A marine biology major, Mayfield  discovered his passion two years ago when he first learned to scuba  dive. Since then, Mayfield has focused his studies at Skyline College  and pursued his interest in marine biology through volunteer work.  He is currently involved in a research project studying the  endangered Chinook salmon at the California Academy of Sciences,  and he also helps maintain the academy's famous "roundabout tank."  "It answered my prayers that I can make a career out of something I  love so much," Mayfield says of marine biology. "I had a lot of trouble  in high school. I didn't have any direction or focus, but now my  interest helps me with school, and I'm passing courses I wouldn't  have dreamed of taking, like chemistry, physics, and calculus. I don't  think there's anything I'd rather do than marine biology." Mayfield  has been an intern with the Marine Science Institute in Redwood City  and volunteered at the Marine Mammal Center in Sausalito. He was  also a volunteer for Skyline's Expanding Your Horizons conference,  which encourages girls to study math and science.

Soonya Shefayee, Mountain View: Born in Kabul, Afghanistan,  Shefayee left that country at the age of six when her parents feared  that their anticommunist views would end anger the family. Now a  successful student, Shefayee earned an Associate of Arts degree in  history from Foothill College this spring; she earned an AA in  political science last year. At UCSC, she will major in biology to  prepare for a career in medicine, but she also plans to pursue her  interest in politics. "My parents stressed the value of education over  everything else," says Shefayee, whose mother attends classes at  San Francisco State. "I see so many opportunities here that I am even  more determined to pursue my educational goals." Shefayee, 20, is  fluent in four languages and was the Students Rights/Affirmative  Action Officer for the Associated Students of Foothill College. She  was also the founder of the Student Body Diversity Enhancement  Committee and the International Cultural Islamic Society. She  served on the President's Committee for Cultural Diversity and  participated in a mentor program for Afghan high school students.  She works part-time as a radiology assistant at El Camino Hospital.

Carmen Youpa, Santa Cruz: When Youpa went to her high school  counselor to discuss taking night classes in cosmetology, her  counselor encouraged her to drop out and pursue cosmetology full- time instead. Despite that advice, Youpa stayed in school, graduated  in 1983, and earned her cosmetology license in 1984. Youpa, who  postponed her college career after her daughter was born, enrolled  at Cabrillo College in 1991 and discovered a love of history. She will  major in American Studies at UCSC, where she is working on a  research project with the Board of Studies in Education. Her husband  is a doctoral candidate in developmental psychology at UCSC. Youpa,  29, also volunteered for two years in a math and science class for  bilingual students at a local junior high school and plans to earn a  bilingual teaching credential.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/06-94/063094-Leadership_Opportun.html "Permalink to 063094-Leadership_Opportun")
