---
layout: post
title: New Ultrafast Laser Probes Secrets Of Solar Cells
author: [Alisa Zapp, Robert Irion]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The contents of a new laboratory at the University  of California, Santa Cruz, are so sensitive that they require  specially designed heating, air-conditioning, electrical-wiring, and  water systems. Inside the lab, on top of tables that dampen all  vibrations, underneath air filters that suck up all dust, and  surrounded by thick black curtains that shield out all light, sits a  glittering array of tiny mirrors, lenses, and prisms. Between them  whizzes a narrow, often invisible, beam of light. This sophisticated  apparatus, one of the first three in the nation, is a solid-state  femtosecond laser.

Set up last spring by Jin Zhang, an assistant professor of  chemistry at UCSC, the laser illuminates chemical reactions that  occur so rapidly they are impossible to measure any other way. Like  an ultrafast movie camera photographing many frames a second, the  laser emits flashes of light that capture the very essence of these  reactions: excited electrons plummeting from one chemical state to  another. "The only goal we have for the whole laser system is to get  very powerful, very short laser pulses so we can study very fast  processes," says Zhang.

The pulses of light from the laser are extraordinarily brief:  100 femtoseconds, or 100 quadrillionths of a second. For  comparison, 100 femtoseconds is to a second as a second is to  320,000 years. Appropriately enough, Zhang's research group  nicknames the laser "Femticruizer."

Zhang aims Femticruizer at tiny beads of the semiconductor  cadmium sulfide, CdS, with an ambitious goal in mind. He hopes to  pave the way for highly efficient solar cells capable of harvesting  sunlight in order to split water into oxygen and hydrogen--a clean,  inexpensive, virtually unlimited fuel. Currently, solar cells convert  only about 10 percent of the sun's energy into electricity; solar  panels merely convert solar energy into heat, which cannot be  stored. Three papers by Zhang's research group on the CdS project  have been accepted for publication in scientific journals.

Zhang's system and the others like it in the U.S.--including one  at UC San Diego--rely on a high-tech amplifier, alone worth  $200,000. The amplifier enables the laser to put out 1,000 flashes  of light every second--a rate 40 times faster than movie frames and  100 times faster than early femtosecond lasers. The amplifier also  gives the new laser much more power than other femtosecond  lasers, enabling it to send out pulses each energetic enough to light  50 million lightbulbs.

Two laser beams created by elements as exotic as argon,  neodymium, and ytterbium activate and amplify the high-powered  laser pulses. A lima bean-sized crystal of sapphire laced with  titanium emits the final red light, making the laser a "solid-state"  system, in contrast to the original femtosecond lasers that use  liquid dyes to produce laser light.

After using dye lasers himself for several years, Zhang much  prefers his solid-state setup. It is cheaper, less messy, and much  more reliable. Dye lasers constantly require new dyes, whereas  solid-state lasers run on a single, essentially unbreakable crystal.  Many dye lasers and amplifiers also break down frequently. Zhang's  titanium-sapphire laser, in contrast, works over 80 percent of the  time. He completed an entire study in two days with the laser  working 20 hours straight, unheard of with dye lasers, which rarely  work for more than a few days a week.

One of the keys to the solid-state laser's impressive  performance, Zhang says, is the $100,000 laboratory renovation he  made to ensure an impeccably clean, temperature-controlled,  vibration-free environment. Several labs are now using his scheme.

By providing details about chemical reactions responsible for  solar energy conversion, the new laser technology may enable  scientists harness the sun to split water--an accomplishment only  dreamed about in the past. "In the '70s when there was an oil crisis,  many research groups were studying how to dissociate water with  sunlight," Zhang says. Certain materials, such as CdS, split water  when the sun shines on them, but these solar cells are very  inefficient.

Zhang induces the water-splitting process in his lab by zapping  CdS with his laser. When the laser beam hits tiny clusters of CdS  suspended in water, electrons in the CdS jump to higher energy  levels, from which they can split water. Zhang monitors the high- energy electrons with flashes of a "probe" laser spaced every few  femtoseconds. "It's like making a movie of the movement of  electrons," he says. The reaction is complete when all the excited  electrons tumble to their unexcited state, which takes about 3  trillionths of a second.

The key to improving the efficiency of solar cells is to force  the electrons to stay longer in their high-energy state. Zhang's group  has successfully accomplished this by partnering two  semiconductors or by coating the solar cells with a light-absorbing  substance similar to that found in green leaves. However, these  techniques require much more research to become commercially  viable.

Zhang is also using his laser to study reactions central to a  new type of cancer treatment called photodynamic therapy. The  technique, still considered experimental in the U.S. although  approved for use in Canada, is a targeted form of chemotherapy with  fewer side effects. Instead of injections of drugs that harm many  cells of the body, photodynamic therapy uses drugs that naturally  accumulate in tumor cells and are activated only when light shines  on them. The wavelength of light necessary for the technique  penetrates the skin easily and is the exact wavelength Zhang's laser  emits.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/03-94/1223317.html "Permalink to 030194-New_ultrafast_laser")
