---
layout: post
title: Scrubbing Out Poison Hemlock Helps Restore Coastal Scrub
author: [Alisa Zapp, Robert Irion]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Its flowers bloom in dainty white clusters, but  smell like rodent urine. Its soft leaves curve like delicate ferns, but  contain a poison deadly to animals, birds, insects, and neighboring  plants. For decades, the invasive poison hemlock, legendary killer of  Socrates, has squeezed out native plants and reduced the habitat of  native species on the central California coast.

In the Younger Lagoon Natural Reserve, in the southwest corner  of Santa Cruz, poison hemlock covers swatches of land with a  blanket of toxic leaves. But near one edge of the reserve, the scene  is different. Here, carved out of knee-high hemlock, an eighth of an  acre of bare ground is punctuated with clumps of native plants. This  bit of land demonstrates the success of an ambitious project in the  reserve: to eradicate poison hemlock and restore native plants and  natural habitats.

Coordinated by the University of California's Natural Reserve  System and aided by the UC Santa Cruz Arboretum, the project gives  UCSC students invaluable field experience and establishes, for the  first time, the techniques necessary to replace poison hemlock with  native plants in this locale.

"The strength of this project is that it is not a single-focus  project," says Maggie Fusari, coordinator of the Natural Reserve  System for UCSC. "If you're a student, the most important aspect is  the educational opportunity. If you own land in the area and need  restoration advice, it's the applied research. And if you are  interested in the reserve itself, it's in improving the biodiversity of  the reserve and the character of the natural communities."

The project's goal is to restore native scrub to the strips of  land most thickly covered with poison hemlock, an area totaling  about five acres in the twenty-acre reserve.

Sandwiched between UCSC's Long Marine Laboratory and a  brussels-sprout farm, Younger Lagoon was set aside in 1987 as part  of the UC Natural Reserve System, a collection of 32 ecologically or  biologically unique sites in California reserved as teaching and  research laboratories. Younger Lagoon contains scattered remnants  of native coastal scrub communities: wind-twisted shrubs, low- lying herbs, grasses, and flowering plants. The scrub communities  provide homes for dozens of bird species, small mammals, and  predators, including bobcats, foxes, and coyotes. However, these  habitats steadily disappear as poison hemlock chokes out native  plant communities.

Poison hemlock was originally imported as a decorative garden  plant from the British Isles in the late 1800s. It gained a foothold at  Younger Lagoon when irrigation and fertilization on neighboring  farmland and construction of Long Marine Lab further disrupted  native plant communities. Found in Mediterranean climates  throughout the world, the weed is toxic to most plant species,  apparently provides no food for wildlife, no nesting area for birds,  and much less protection against soil erosion than native plants.  "It's like a green oil spill--tremendously destructive," says Grey (his  full name), steward of the reserve and supervisor of the restoration  project.

The first step in the restoration process is to hand cut or pull  up poison hemlock in the late spring, just before its seeds mature.  Each hemlock plant produces a thousand seeds, which are dispersed  by the wind or drop to the ground. To prevent seeds lodged in the soil  from germinating, students spread a four-inch-thick layer of straw  mulch over the weeded ground. The students then set up miniature  scrub communities by planting clusters of native plants: coyote  brush, buckwheat, tree lupine, purple needle grass, and other hardy  species.

Success of the restoration project, which began two years ago,  has exceeded expectations. Lupine planted last year has grown four  feet tall and equally wide. "The plants we put in have had a great  survival rate; there's no way poison hemlock will take over when  they're this big," says Grey.

Critical to the project is the support of the Arboretum, which  provides space and horticultural expertise to grow the native  species from seeds or cuttings until they are planted in the reserve.

Work at the reserve provides students with a senior thesis  project or internship credit. Five undergraduate students majoring in  biology or environmental studies have been involved in the  restoration project. Three of these are finishing up their theses and  two new students plan to join the project in the spring or summer.

"The program is uniquely suited to the Santa Cruz educational  philosophy of having students do senior thesis work as a transition  to their professional lives," says Fusari. "These students are  interested in careers in restoration ecology and horticulture."

Restoration ecology is a burgeoning field as more businesses,  developers, and private citizens become interested in recovering  native vegetation. But currently there are no standard techniques for  chemical-free restoration of native plant communities. "There's a  very pivotal role for this research," Fusari says. "If we show people  what works, then more people will be willing to try it." She and Grey  hope to submit the results of the Younger Lagoon project to a  scientific journal in about a year. Workers in different locales may  have to modify the techniques used at Younger Lagoon to best suit  the unique combination of sun, wind, and other environmental  conditions in their regions.

Fusari and Grey estimate that they could restore native scrub  to the five acres in the reserve in five years with sufficient funding  and three or four full-time workers. Other projects at the reserve  include analyzing the salinity of the soil, mitigating the effects of  the neighboring farm, and cataloging bird and animal species.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/03-94/031094-Poison_hemlock_remo.html "Permalink to 031094-Poison_hemlock_remo")
