---
layout: post
title: Recycled-paper Mills Produce Far Fewer Toxics Than Mills Using Virgin Wood, Study Finds
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

NEW YORK--Producing recycled paper is dramatically cleaner for the  environment than making paper products from virgin-wood fiber,  according to a study reported today (September 1) by an  environmental policy analyst from the University of California,  Santa Cruz.

Assistant professor of environmental studies Daniel Press  found that relative to mills that use virgin wood, recycled-paper  mills generate a fraction of the toxic substances such as chlorine,  chloroform, ammonia, acids, and solvents that are commonly  released in paper manufacturing. Although the number of mills  producing recycled paper remains relatively small industry-wide,  the environmental impact of paper manufacturing could be greatly  improved through the use of recovered wastepaper, Press concludes.  Press based his study on data reported to the Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) by pulp and paper manufacturers from 1987  to 1992.

"The pulp and paper industry has been one of the dirtiest  industries in the country," says Press, who presented his findings at  the annual meeting of the American Political Science Association in  New York City. "This study confirms the problems faced by the  industry, but it also shows the enormous improvement that is  possible with new technology and manufacturing processes."

Press's findings are based on reports of total annual releases  in 1992 of chlorine, chlorine dioxide, chloroform, ammonia,  hydrochloric and sulfuric acids, and the solvents methanol, acetone,  and methyl ethyl ketone. Many of these toxic substances are  carcinogenic or have been linked to birth defects. Other hazards  include respiratory problems and skin irritation. As used in paper  mills, chlorine can produce dioxin, a highly carcinogenic compound.  Chlorine is used to bleach paper products; chloroform is a common  by-product of the use of chlorine in paper manufacturing.

Press used EPA reports from three types of mills: integrated  mills (which produce pulp and paper) that use recovered wastepaper  solely or primarily; pulp mills that use virgin-wood fiber; and integrated mills that use virgin-wood fiber. A fourth type of mill,  pulp mills that use recycled materials, was omitted from the  findings because the mills reported few or no releases of most chemicals monitored by the EPA.

When he compared the toxics produced per 100 tons of finished  product--a small mill's typical daily output--Press found that  integrated mills using recycled paper released 3 to 100 times fewer  pounds of toxics on average than mills using virgin wood. For  instance, integrated mills using recycled paper released 0.1 pounds  of chlorine on average for every 100 tons of product, versus 4.2  pounds for integrated mills using virgin wood and 10.6 pounds for  pulp mills using virgin wood. For every chemical listed, recycled- paper mills were "cleaner" than virgin-wood mills. (A table of  Press's findings is available; see editor's note below.)

"Looking at the toxics this way gives us a pretty good  breakdown of the average amounts of toxics being released relative  to product being generated," notes Press.

For his study, Press used industry data reported to the EPA's  Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) between 1987 and 1992. Thirty  integrated mills used recovered wastepaper and reported releases  during that period, and 20 pulp mills using virgin wood reported  releases. Because hundreds of integrated mills use only virgin-wood  fiber, Press's analysis is based on figures reported by a random  sample of 29 of those mills.

The TRI was created as part of the EPA's Superfund  Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, also known as the  Community Right-to-Know law. The law requires companies that  have ten or more employees and that use significant amounts of any  of some 300 listed chemicals to report their emissions to the EPA  annually. Companies must report the maximum amount of chemical  on site, the number of pounds released to air, land, and water,  whether these are point-source emissions or "fugitive" emissions,  and whether discharges are treated, recovered for energy, or  recycled. Press believes that his analysis is the first review of TRI  data for the paper and pulp industry.

Press emphasizes that the TRI data are all self-reported, and  some reports may not be reliable; companies are seldom audited by  the EPA. In addition, companies unfamiliar with reporting  requirements may have made significant errors in the first few  years that reports were due. Nevertheless, the data give the best  available picture of the environmental impact of the pulp and paper  industry, says Press.

Although TRI data for the firms examined in the study show  that all pulp and paper companies have dramatically decreased their  reported releases of chlorine and chlorine dioxide since 1987, the  firms using wood fiber were releasing far greater amounts of  chlorine to begin with. For instance, the 30 integrated mills using  recycled materials reported that they released a total of 1,861  pounds of chlorine in 1992. Press's random sample of 29 integrated  mills using virgin wood, in contrast,reported 287,523 pounds of  chlorine released, while the 20 pulp mills using virgin wood  reported 411,296 pounds. Similar dramatic differences exist for  chloroform and the other substances in thestudy. The large  differences are partly due to the greater amount of pulp and paper  produced byvirgin-wood mills, Press notes.

The EPA has credited the paper industry as a whole with  reducing its toxic releases by 14.3 percent from 1988 to 1992, but  Press observes that not all segments of the industry are yielding  high environmental benefits. Indeed, among the paper companies  whose data Press reviewed are a company that ranked among the top  50 largest polluters in the country in any industry and one company  that was among the top 50 facilities with the greatest decrease in  total toxic releases. "The range of performance of those two  companies reflects the overall trends. The range of environmental  impact within the paper industry is enormous," says Press.

The fledgling recycled paper industry has been competing with  manufacturers that use virgin-wood pulp with little help, notes  Press. "The EPA has been trying to move the whole industry rather  than singling out the segment that has shown dramatic  improvement," he says. "I think we should favor the recyclers, and  these data support that approach. Public policy should be actively  directed at lowering the barriers to recycling paper." Research and  development money should be directed at developing better ways of  de-inking wastepaper and building the infrastructure to collect  recycled paper, as well as continuing efforts to improve bleaching  technology, which benefits all mills, according to Press.

The paper industry study is part of a broader examination of  market forces and industry trends that affect the "greening" of  industry in the United States. That study is coauthored by Press and  Dan Mazmanian, a professor of political science and director of the  Center for Politics and Economics at The Claremont Graduate School  in Claremont, CA.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/09-94/090194-Recycled_paper_mill.html "Permalink to 090194-Recycled_paper_mill")
