---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Researcher Coordinates Local Arm Of Statewide Program To Compost Municipal Yard Waste For Agricultural Uses
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--In a demonstration project funded by the  California Integrated Waste Management Board, local cities and  counties are teaming up with farmers to help reduce the amount of  garbage that ends up in landfills.

The two-year project, which will be administered by Marc  Buchanan, an assistant professor of environmental studies at the  University of California, Santa Cruz, will test the viability of on- farm composting of municipal yard waste and cardboard and will  monitor the subsequent performance of the compost in vegetable  production.

The Monterey Bay regional project is one of five such efforts  being launched statewide in the first high-profile trial run of  municipal/agricultural composting collaborations. As part of the  effort to reduce waste, municipalities are required by state law to  divert a total of 10 million tons of compostable material from the  state's waste stream every year by the year 2000. Yard clippings  account for 15 to 25 percent of California's waste, according to the  California Integrated Waste Management Board, which would like to  divert a significant portion of that waste to agriculture.

"The Monterey Bay region is a perfect setting for this type of  trial run because it offers a high concentration of farms and urban  areas," says Buchanan. "Urban areas generate large amounts of  compostable waste that could be used by regional farms." Year-round  production of fruits and vegetables in the study area--Santa Cruz,  San Benito, and northern Monterey counties--generates more than $2  billion annually, and demand for organic soil amendments is strong.  In Monterey County alone, an estimated 75,000 tons of animal  manure is trucked from the Central Valley to farms every year.  Compost improves soil quality by increasing water infiltration and  retention, and enhancing the population of soil microbes and nutrient  levels; when used as a mulch, it also helps to suppress weeds.

"This project is the first time the state has endorsed a  partnership between municipalities and growers," says Buchanan.  "The state will be relying on growers to step in and help divert a  large portion of the municipal waste flow. This is the first time  that a large-scale project will test the viability of that plan."

Solid-waste planners and managers from the city of  Watsonville and the counties of Santa Cruz and Monterey are project  participants and will provide "clean" shredded yard trimmings and  waxed cardboard for compost production. In addition, a compost  made up entirely of yard trimmings will be produced at the Marina  Landfill site in Monterey County for use at Jefferson Ranch.

Two ranches will produce compost, and four vegetable farms  will apply the compost this fall and next spring: Herbert Ranch in  San Benito County will produce compost from shredded urban  landscape clippings, manure, vegetable-processing waste, and  spoiled hay; Glaum Egg Ranch in Santa Cruz County will compost  shredded waxed cardboard and chicken manure. Compost will be  applied to lettuce, broccoli, and specialty leaf crops at Route One  Farms in Santa Cruz County; Herbert Ranch and Tonascia Farms in  San Benito County; and Jefferson Ranch in Monterey County.

Composting trials are scheduled to begin this month, and the  chemical properties of trial batches will be analyzed. Compost  derived from waxed cardboard will be monitored to assure minimal  contamination from printing inks. Finally, researchers will compare  the yields and the water-holding capacity of soil from those plots  with plots that do not receive compost.

Buchanan received a $65,000 grant from the California  Integrated Waste Management Board to coordinate the project. Other  participants in the $355,000 statewide study are the city of San  Jose, and University of California Cooperative Extension offices in  Fresno, Tulare, and Stanislaus. A summary of the Santa  Cruz/Monterey project will be included in a final statewide report  to be issued in 1996.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/08-94/083094-UCSC_researcher_coo.html "Permalink to 083094-UCSC_researcher_coo")
