---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Chancellor Karl Pister And Astronomer Joseph  Miller Named To American Academy Of Arts And Sciences 
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Chancellor Karl S. Pister and astronomer Joseph S.  Miller of the University of California, Santa Cruz, have been elected  fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Membership  in the academy, an international honorary society based in  Cambridge, Massachusetts, is one of the highest honors there is for  scientists, artists, public figures, and scholars.

Pister and Miller are joined by composer Philip Glass,  historian David McCullough, author Jane Smiley, and 205 other  individuals elected this year to the academy, which was founded in  1780 by John Adams and other leaders of the American Revolution.  The group's purpose, as stated in its original charter, is "to cultivate  every art and science which may tend to advance the interest, honor,  dignity, and happiness of a free, independent, and virtuous people."  Its current membership is about 4,000 fellows and 600 foreign  honorary members.

A professor of engineering science, Pister came to the Santa  Cruz campus from UC Berkeley, where he was a highly regarded  member of the faculty of the College of Engineering. He served as  dean of the college from 1980 until 1990. Pister specialized in the  mechanics of solids and structures, earthquake engineering, and  optimization-based, computer-aided design of dynamically loaded  structures. He joined the UC Berkeley faculty in 1952.

A native of Stockton, California, Pister earned his B.S. in civil  engineering from UC Berkeley in 1945 and his master's degree in the  same field three years later. He received his Ph.D. in theoretical and  applied mechanics from the University of Illinois in 1952.

Pister is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and  a fellow of the American Academy of Mechanics and of the American  Society of Mechanical Engineers. He is also a member of the  American Society of Civil Engineers, the Society for Engineering  Science, and the American Society for Engineering Education. Pister  was twice named a Fulbright Scholar, and in 1985 he was appointed  the first holder of the Roy W. Carlson Chair in Engineering at UC  Berkeley.

Miller, a professor of astronomy and astrophysics, has served  as director of UC Observatories/Lick Observatory since 1991,  overseeing the operation of Lick Observatory near San Jose and the  University of California component of the new W. M. Keck  Observatory in Hawaii, home to the world's largest optical  telescope. An expert in astronomical instrumentation, Miller has  helped develop important observing tools for the Keck Telescope and  other major telescopes.

Miller's scientific research concerns extremely luminous  objects beyond our Milky Way galaxy, including quasars and the  dynamic centers of galaxies. The aim of his research is to  investigate the nature of the central energy sources­which are  among the most powerful objects in the universe­as well as the  environment around the sources.

Miller received his B.A. in astronomy and physics from UCLA  and his M.S. and Ph.D. in astronomy from the University of Wisconsin.  He came to UCSC as a postdoctoral fellow in 1967 and joined the  faculty in 1968. He was assistant director of UCO/Lick from 1981 to  1991.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/04-94/041594-Chancellor_Pister_a.html "Permalink to 041594-Chancellor_Pister_a")
