---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Hosts Syllabus '94, A Conference Showcasing Higher-education Technology
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

Reporters are invited to cover this national conference that will  include demonstrations of state-of-the-art multimedia tools  available for use in higher education. For more information or for a  detailed agenda, please call the UCSC Office of Public Information  at (408) 459-2495.

What: A conference on technology that will showcase the latest  computer technology for higher education, including demonstrations,  hands-on workshops, and discussion sections. Reporters can see  what educators have dubbed the future of education at both the K-12  and university level, including multimedia tools that integrate text,  images, sound, and video information and allow users to move  quickly--typically with the click of a computer mouse--from one  media to another; quantitative and visualization tools that are used  to analyze large bodies of data and put it in easy-to-grasp graphic or  moving-animation formats; and presentation tools that help  educators prepare data for projection and lecture presentations.

Who: Technology experts from higher education will  demonstrate their own developments, and hands-on workshops in  well-equipped labs will allow participants to work with a range of  tools, including the Internet.

When: August 14-17, 1994

Where: University of California, Santa Cruz

Summary: Colleges and universities will invest more than $7  billion in technology in 1994. Syllabus '94 will offer faculty,  administrators, and technology staff an opportunity to see and work  with the latest tools available for higher education. The conference  is cosponsored by the Board of Studies in Education at UC Santa Cruz  and Syllabus Press, the Sunnyvale-based publisher of Syllabus  magazine. The magazine is read by 200,000 educators worldwide  who rely on it to keep abreast of the latest developments in higher- education technology. The conference is part of a growing effort to  form partnerships between the university and the private sector as  UCSC and the Monterey Bay region emerge as a center of excellence  in science, technology, and education. "Multimedia technology is an  important tool for improving science education at both the  university and the K-12 levels," says Trish Stoddart, associate  professor of education at UCSC. "This conference will highlight the  latest technology that's available."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/07-94/072794-UCSC_hosts_Syllabus.html "Permalink to 072794-UCSC_hosts_Syllabus")
