---
layout: post
title: American Geophysical Union Honors Seismologist John Vidale
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Seismologist John Vidale, a research associate at  the Institute of Tectonics at the University of California, Santa  Cruz, has received one of the nation's leading awards for young  geophysicists. The American Geophysical Union (AGU) honored Vidale  and two other researchers with the 1994 James B. Macelwane Medal,  given annually to scientists of outstanding ability who are age 35 or  younger.

Vidale, who also is employed as a geophysicist by the U.S.  Geological Survey in Menlo Park, specializes in using seismic  records from earthquakes or artificial explosions as tools for  exploring various features within the earth. The AGU lauded "his  contributions to the study of subduction zones, upper-mantle  discontinuities, core-mantle structure, and earthquake monitoring  as a means of probing below the crust and lithosphere."

The other recipients of the 1994 Macelwane Medal are Daniel  Jacob and Jeremy Bloxham, both of Harvard University.

The medal is named for the Reverend James B. Macelwane, who  established the first institute of geophysics in the U.S. and had a  deep interest in teaching and encouraging young scientists.  Macelwane died in 1956. The award is one of several presented each  year by the AGU, which has more than 30,000 members worldwide  and is the largest scientific society dedicated to promoting the  study of the earth and its environment in space.

Vidale, 35, earned his B.S. in physics and geology from Yale  University in 1981 and his Ph.D. in geophysics from the California  Institute of Technology in 1987. He joined UCSC's Institute of  Tectonics in 1987 and has remained a research associate there since  accepting his position at the U.S. Geological Survey in 1991. Vidale  frequently publishes the results of his research in Nature, the  world's most prestigious scientific journal.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/04-94/042194-AGU_honors_seismolo.html "Permalink to 042194-AGU_honors_seismolo")
