---
layout: post
title: Children's Art Contest Winners To Be Recognized At UC Santa Cruz Celebration November 19
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A recognition ceremony for the participants in an  art contest for children takes place at 10:30 a.m. on Saturday,  November 19, in McHenry Library at the University of California,  Santa Cruz. The event is free and open to the public.

The contest, open to children in numerous after-school  programs in Santa Cruz and Seaside, is centered on the theme "A  Pictorial Gathering of Flowers" (for a full list of after-school  programs, see below). Children aged six to thirteen have been invited  to create two-dimensional art using flowers as the central subject.  The idea for the theme, according to multicultural outreach librarian  and contest organizer Deborah Turner, comes from the title of the  University Library's millionth volume--"A Gathering of Flowers," an  anthology on childhood experiences from multicultural perspectives.

Contest judges will select a number of the submissions to go  on permanent display in the instruction areas at McHenry Library.  The judges are UCSC psychology professor Barbara Rogoff, Children's  Art Foundation director William Rubel, and UCSC art librarian  Christine Bunting.

"The basic idea of this contest is to display artwork in the  library that speaks to the diversity of the people who actually use  the collection," explains Turner. "It would be very easy to simply go  out and purchase artwork, but this contest makes it a more fruitful  endeavor. We give our children an opportunity to be proud of their  accomplishments. They can learn the value of participation and gain  inspiration from their results." Many of the children's works will be on display the day of the  celebration. Storytellers Erica Lann Clark and Nancy Lenz will  provide entertainment suitable for ages six and up. For more  information on the celebration and to arrange for sign-language  interpretation, call (408) 459-5171. To make arrangements for  sign-language interpretation, please call as soon as possible.

Editor's note: After-school groups participating in the contest  include the African American Council, the UCSC Family Housing  School Age Program, the Boys' and Girls' Club of Santa Cruz, Kids  Klub, La Familia, El Monte Community Center, Beach Flats Community  Center, and programs supported by Santa Cruz Parks and Recreation.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/11-94/110994-Children_art_conte.html "Permalink to 110994-Children_art_conte")
