---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Receives $450,000 Donation Of Computer Graphics Software 
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The Alias (America) Corporation of Los Angeles  has donated ten packages of software for state-of-the-art computer  graphics to the University of California, Santa Cruz, for use in  teaching and research. The donation is valued at $450,000.

The software, named Alias PowerAnimator, will be used in  five courses in computer graphics at UCSC. They range from  Computer Arts and Graphics, an undergraduate course taken by many  students majoring in art, to graduate offerings such as Computer  Graphics and Computer Animation.

"Students who have no prior experience with computers can  start playing with this software right away," says assistant  professor of computer and information sciences Suresh Lodha, who  coordinated the donation. "But it also has sophisticated applications  for computer-science majors and graduate students."

Lodha and two other graphics specialists--associate  professor Jane Wilhelms and assistant professor Alex Pang--plan to  use the software in their research as well. Alias PowerAnimator is  ideal for making three-dimensional images of complex data, says  Lodha, and for creating animated sequences so that researchers may  see how the data change with time.

For example, Pang and other UCSC scientists are part of a five- year project to develop new ways of rapidly handling information on  weather, ocean conditions, and other aspects of the Monterey Bay  environment. The Alias software should help them create powerful  images from these data that researchers can easily interpret. Other  applications include medical imaging, seismology, and fluid  dynamics--such as visualizing the flow of air around an airplane  wing.

The gift consists of ten licenses to operate ten packages of  Alias PowerAnimator software. Each package, valued at $45,000,  includes the base software, an Alias Advanced Animation software  option, and an Alias PowerModeling software option.

The software runs on Silicon Graphics workstations at UCSC's  Baskin Center for Computer Engineering and Information Sciences.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/93-94/04-94/040194-UCSC_receives_large.html "Permalink to 040194-UCSC_receives_large")
