---
layout: post
title: UCSC Psychologist Elliot Aronson Receives Distinguished Career Award
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--One of the world's leading social psychologists,  Elliot Aronson is dedicated to improving people's lives. His work  exploring the science of how people think and behave has contributed  greatly to the field of social psychology, and his distinguished  career is marked by groundbreaking findings on how to reduce  prejudice in public schools, how to use peer pressure to encourage  energy conservation, and how to convince teenagers to use condoms  to prevent the spread of AIDS.

These contributions are among the reasons Aronson, a  professor emeritus of psychology at the University of California,  Santa Cruz, will receive the Distinguished Career Award from the  Society for Experimental Social Psychology. The society, made up of  about 400 social psychologists, is the premier organization of social  psychologists, and the award represents the recognition of Aronson's  closest peers. Aronson will receive the honor on Saturday, October  15, during the group's annual meeting.

Aronson, 62, is well-known for his research as well as his  teaching and writing, says colleague and coauthor Anthony  Pratkanis, an associate professor of psychology at UCSC who will  introduce Aronson.

"Elliot's research examines some of society's biggest  problems--prejudice, propaganda, aggression--and it gives us a  hopeful vision of humankind by showing us how we can change," says  Pratkanis. "Elliot's message is that the social environment matters  and that social relationships matter. He has shown us how to  reduce aggression and prejudice and the influence of propaganda."

Aronson has had a profound influence on the field of social  psychology, in part through his textbook The Social Animal--a  classic that has trained a generation of social psychologists. "Elliot  has defined the minds and hearts of social psychologists," says  Pratkanis. "All textbooks speak to the mind, but The Social Animal  speaks to the heart as well as the mind. It tells us what we should  know and why we should know it."

Aronson's early contributions include major research in the  1960s on the theory of cognitive dissonance, which first revealed  how attitudes are sometimes altered to conform to actions. The  theory postulates that if an individual's beliefs are inconsistent  with his or her actions, he or she will experience discomfort and  will find a way to resolve the conflict. For instance, a fraternity  member may rationalize the severity of an initiation ritual he is  forced to endure by forming a powerful allegiance to the group--an  example of adjusting one's belief to justify an action after the fact.  Cognitive dissonance transformed social psychology, displacing  reward theory as the dominant explanation of human behavior.

Aronson's career is marked by dozens of intriguing  experiments, such as the "Forbidden Toy" experiment of the mid  1960s in which Aronson explained why young children given a severe  warning not to play with an attractive toy went ahead and played  with it, while other children who had received a much milder  warning ignored the toy. Aronson's theory of "insufficient  justification" explained that the children given the mild threat  concluded that the toy must not be that attractive after all, whereas  the children facing the stern warning received the message that the  toy is so attractive that it warranted the risk of harsh punishment.

A decade later, Aronson further developed the theory of  cognitive dissonance when he recognized that individuals are  particularly motivated to resolve conflict if it reflects poorly on  one's morality, honesty, or abilities. This finding figures  prominently in Aronson's current work, which hinges on the role of  hypocrisy in transforming behavior. For example, in his work  encouraging teens to use condoms, research subjects play the role of  advising others to use condoms to protect themselves from AIDS and  other sexually transmitted diseases. During the experiment, those  individuals are asked if they use condoms, and the tension  experienced by those who do not is enough to motivate them to take  the precaution.

In his revolutionary work on classroom prejudice, known as the  "Jigsaw Classroom," Aronson developed a strategy to overcome the  racial, gender, and socioeconomic divisions that occur in American  classrooms. Social psychologists recognize that such divisions-- even when they're self-imposed--fuel stereotypes and conflict, so  Aronson's technique requires students to interact as equals. In one  experiment to test his "equal status contact hypothesis," Aronson  established integrated teams and asked each team to write a  biography of Abraham Lincoln. To build cooperation, each team  member was given a different packet of information about Lincoln's  life, and each team was instructed that to get an "A," all elements  had to appear in the biography. The experiment fostered mutual  dependence and encouraged the students to rely on each other.

Aronson's contributions have been recognized throughout his  career. Most recently, he was elected to the American Academy of  Arts and Sciences in 1992. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship in  1981\. In 1980, he became the first person to have both his teaching  and research honored by the American Psychological Association.  The American Association for the Advancement of Science  recognized his research in 1970, and The Social Animal has been  widely lauded, receiving the coveted National Media Award in 1973.  It remains among the most popular texts in social psychology.

Aronson received his B.A. from Brandeis University in 1954,  his M.A. from Wesleyan University in 1956, and his Ph.D. in  psychology from Stanford University in 1959. He began teaching at  Harvard University in 1959 and moved in 1962 to the University of  Minnesota. He joined the University of Texas in 1965 and came to  UCSC in 1974.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/10-94/100794-UCSC_psychologist_E.html "Permalink to 100794-UCSC_psychologist_E")
