---
layout: post
title: Dickens Conference Hosts A Special Day Of Events For The Public
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Fans of Charles Dickens are invited to attend the  Dickens Universe Public Day, a special one-day program featuring  speakers, refreshments, a film, and informal discussions on the  popular Victorian author. Public Day is presented as part of the  fifteenth annual Dickens Universe at the University of California,  Santa Cruz, and is designed for those who cannot attend the  weeklong conference but would still like to study Dickens, discuss  his work with other aficionados, and hear from leading experts in  the field. Along with presentations from two prominent Dickens  scholars, Public Day will feature an afternoon Victorian tea, an  evening sherry hour, and a film. The event runs from 3 to 11 p.m. on  Wednesday, August 2, at Kresge College. The cost is $15.

Featured speakers for Public Day are David Parker, curator of  the Dickens House Museum in London, and Philip Collins, a professor  of English at the University of Leicester and a leading authority on  the life and work of Charles Dickens. Together, their talks offer an  insightful, entertaining introduction to Dickens.

In a talk and slide show titled "The Great Expectations  Country," Parker will discuss how Dickens incorporated real-life  settings into his fiction, and how he used those settings to help tell  his stories. One example of this, Parker says, is found in a scene in  Great Expectations in which a boy named Pip arrives in London's  Little Britain district.

"It was an area dominated by the cattle market," Parker  explains. "Thousands of cattle were brought in on Mondays and  slaughtered nearby. Also in that area was a cluster of prisons and St.  Bartholomew's Hospital. The terrified cattle were herded through  the streets, executions took place out in front of the prisons, and  because St. Bartholomew's was a teaching hospital, it attracted body  snatchers--people who provided bodies to the hospital for medical  students to cut up. Dickens described it as 'a shameful place all  asmear with blood and fat and foam.' " Philip Collins will present the talk, "How Dickens's Novels Got  Written and Read." "Dickens was one of the first to write novels for  serial publication. He got into publishing that way and always wrote  his novels in monthly illustrated installments," Collins says. "In  some ways, reading them was more like watching a television series  or a soap opera than reading a novel. After reading an installment,  people had a month to talk about it with their neighbors and dinner  guests. A lot of expectations built up and there was a lot of  anticipation for the next installment." Dickens was always working  under a tight deadline, but, says Collins, "He only fell behind once;  that was when his sister-in-law dropped dead in his arms."

Public Day concludes with the screening of the film, Wide  Sargasso Sea (1993). Adapted from the best-selling 1966 novel by  Jean Rhys, the film is directed by John Duigan and stars Karina  Lombard, Michael York, Nathaniel Parker, Claudia Robinson, and  Rachel Ward. The story's protagonist is based on the character of the  insane Mrs. Rochester created by Charlotte Bronte in Jane Eyre. Set  in Jamaica in the 1840s in a climate of postcolonialism, eroticism,  madness, and magic, Wide Sargasso Sea invents the circumstances  that lead to Mrs. Rochester's madness.

Public Day is presented in conjunction with the Dickens  Universe, which takes place July 30 through August 5. The Dickens  Universe is open to the public and is designed for university, college,  and high school teachers; students; and anyone who enjoys reading  the works of Victorian novelists. Along with lectures by world- renowned scholars, the weeklong event features Victorian teas,  dramatic readings, film screenings, sherry hours, and a book fair.  This year's gathering focuses on Great Expectations by Dickens and  Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte. For more information on the Dickens  Universe or Public Day, call (408) 459-2103.

Public Day schedule of events All events take place at UCSC's Kresge College

3 p.m.: Victorian refreshments, outside Room 321 3:30 p.m.: David Parker, "The Great Expectations Country," Room 321 6:45 p.m.: Postprandial Potations (sherry hour), outside Kresge Town  Hall 7:45 p.m.: Philip Collins, "How Dickens's Novels Got Written and  Read," Kresge Town Hall 9 p.m.: Film, Wide Sargasso Sea, Room 321

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/07-95/070595-Dickens_conference_.html "Permalink to 070595-Dickens_conference_")
