---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Makes Its Mark In Ocean Drilling
author: [Pamela Donegan, Robert Irion]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Three miles under the whitecaps of the world's  oceans, large chapters of earth's history are engraved in stone.  Sediments that settled millions of years ago on the seafloor  recorded everything from temperature change to the slow waltz of  drifting continents. Geologists would have a field day--if they could.  Alas, the crushing presence of all that water makes ordinary  geological sampling impossible. But there is a way to reach those  rocks without jeeps, shovels, or hammers: You can use a big seagoing  drill.

Systematic scientific drilling began 27 years ago with the  Deep Sea Drilling Program (DSDP) and continues today as the Ocean  Drilling Program (ODP), an internationally financed operation run by  Texas A&M University. The flagship of ODP is the 470-foot-long  JOIDES Resolution, commissioned by the Joint Oceanographic  Institutions for Deep Earth Sampling. It is no ordinary ship. Sporting  a drilling derrick one-fifth the height of the Eiffel Tower, the ship  has more than five miles of drill pipe. Beneath its deck are  laboratories brimming with everything from microscopes to  cryogenic magnetometers. Thus equipped, the world's earth and  marine scientists have been gradually piecing together the story of  the planet's many face-lifts and climate shifts.

Many of these pelagic planetary detectives hail from the  University of California, Santa Cruz. "The level of our involvement  with ocean drilling is really astounding for a place this size," says  professor of earth sciences Eli Silver. At least twenty faculty and  graduate students have signed on--some, more than once. They are  undeterred by the rigors of eight weeks out of sight of land, twelve- hour work shifts, cramped quarters, and a woeful lack of lettuce.

J. Casey Moore, also a professor of earth sciences, has been out  seven times--three times as one of the co-chief scientists directing  drilling operations. He readily points out the unique contributions of  the program. "Literally, until about 40 or 50 years ago, the ocean  floor offshore was completely unknown," he says. "Now, with ocean  drilling, we can get beneath it."

Moore credits ocean drilling with some of geology's most  exciting discoveries. The best example, he says, is the evidence that  rocks gradually increase in age the further they are from mid-ocean  ridges. This confirmed a theory that the earth constantly gives birth  to oceanic crust at these seams. Scientists now know that newly  formed sheets travel away from the center like conveyor belts. At  continental edges, these thin crustal plates have nowhere to go, and  they dive into the planet, melting under the pressure of the  overriding continental plates. This process is integral to the large- scale motions of the earth's crust known as plate tectonics.

Moore's own research has taken him to several plate  boundaries, where the pressure of the collision between seafloor and  continental plate cracks surrounding rock layers. "I'm into plate  boundary faults," he says. "They're exciting. They produce big  earthquakes." This past summer he and two UCSC doctoral students,  Gretchen Zwart and Harold Tobin, drilled at a plate boundary off  Barbados. There, they documented a fluid channel, like an  underground river, running between the Caribbean plate and the  diving Atlantic seafloor. He found a similar phenomenon in 1992 off  the Oregon coast. Such channels provide clues about plate-boundary  dynamics, he says, because the water pressure in the channels  increases with the force of the plate collision. Greater forces  indicate a greater likelihood of earthquakes at the fault. "If we can  monitor these fluids, potentially we could plug into the earthquake  cycle," he says.

Eli Silver also studies continental margins, especially in areas  where plate collisions are raising mountains. He is a veteran of  marine geophysical expeditions and sailed once as co-chief scientist  aboard the JOIDES Resolution. Now, he is preparing for another  cruise to Costa Rica in 1996. Like Barbados, Costa Rica is an area  where one plate of the earth's crust rides over the top of another  like a bulldozer. By drilling there, Silver hopes to measure the  proportion of ocean sediments carried deep into the plate margin  versus those that stay plastered at the edge. This diving material  concerns scientists because it often returns to the surface in the  form of volcanic eruptions.

Margaret Delaney, associate professor of marine sciences,  pursued a different type of research on her one voyage with ODP.  Using a vice to squeeze sediment cores, she measured the chemistry  of the water trapped between the grains. She found that over  millions of years, fossilized plankton lose some of their minerals  into that broth. Because most scientists did not realize how much  leaching occurred, Delaney's work may change the way that  submarine fossils are used to trace the ocean's chemical history.

Another drilling program participant, assistant professor of  earth sciences James Zachos, studied ancient climates during his  cruises in 1985, 1988, and last spring. Zachos says his most  important discovery occurred during drilling in the southern Indian  Ocean. There, he found evidence that ice sheets first appeared on  Antarctica 40 million years ago, some 25 million years earlier than  previously thought. This has prompted scientists to revisit their  theories of how ice ages begin. Originally, they believed that large  ice sheets could exist only when the poles turned cold. However, the  presence of the ice blanket on Antarctica during a relatively warm  time in earth's history indicates that other factors must have  triggered global glaciation.

Ocean drilling is not all about individual research, though. "It's  an incredibly successful international program," says Moore. "It's  phenomenal the level of cooperation it fosters." Even the occasional  language barrier or personality quirk doesn't interfere with the  camaraderie, Moore says. Silver agrees, but adds: "After two months  at sea, you're really ready to get off the ship."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/03-95/031595-UC_Santa_Cruz_makes.html "Permalink to 031595-UC_Santa_Cruz_makes")
