---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Arboretum Is Hummingbird Haven
author: [Pamela Donegan, Robert Irion]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The air is abuzz--literally--as scores of tiny  iridescent hummingbirds alight in the Arboretum at the University  of California, Santa Cruz, just in time for the annual Hummingbird  Festival. The birds don't know about the festival, of course. They  just come to sample the Arboretum's plentiful nectar-rich blooms.

Scheduled for Saturday, March 18, this event will feature free  guided walks starting at10 a.m., 12 noon, and 2 p.m., plus a large  assortment of hummingbird plants and paraphernalia at Norrie's Gift  Shop, which will stay open until 4 p.m. The walks will be led by local  wildlife biologist and environmental consultant David Suddjian and  Arboretum staff member Stephen McCabe.

At least two species, the Anna's and the Allen's hummingbirds,  will attend the festivities, says Suddjian. For most of the year, the  Anna's have the place to themselves, but in January the Allen's  hummingbirds come to town. These tiny migrants buzz up from  wintering grounds in Mexico and stay around feeding and breeding  until June. Although slightly smaller than the Anna's, the Allen's  tend to dominate the area once they arrive. "They're pretty  pugnacious," says Suddjian.

Despite the competition, both species hum freely about the  Arboretum throughout the spring because there is enough food for  everyone. According to curator McCabe, hundreds of hummingbird- attracting shrubs and trees line the winding paths.

What really brings them in, says McCabe, is the Grevillea.  Originally from Australia, this group of bushy plants comes in so  many shapes and sizes that it's hard to tell they are all related.  Some have spiky waxy leaves like a live oak, others sport long  needlelike foliage, and still others have stiff, antler-shaped  vegetation. But most have one thing in common: red tube-shaped  flowers about as long as a pushpin. Granted, some of the flowers  have straight dangling petals, others curl like spider legs, and a  third type bristles like rows on a toothbrush, but even so, they are  just the right size and shape for tiny bird bills. Also, they brim with  the sweet nectar that hummingbirds depend on to keep up their  frenetic pace. At the height of the season, it's not surprising to see  fifteen hummingbirds zooming simultaneously from bloom to bloom  on the same sprawling bush.

Plants like Grevillea are perfectly suited to the tastes of  nectar-feeding birds like hummingbirds for one reason: pollination.  In Australia, Grevillea depend on the pollination services of local  honeyeaters and sunbirds. But here in California, where there are no  honeyeaters, hummingbirds take over. "Some of these species can't  set seed without them," says McCabe. That is why the flowers are so  similar, whereas the leaves come in every shape under the sun. In a  new environment, plants may develop modified leaves to compensate  for changes in light or water, but the flowers need to attract bird  pollinators regardless. "It's easier to change things that don't have  to do with reproduction," McCabe explains.

But hummingbirds have more than plant pollination on their  minds during the spring. Many are looking for mates. To attract  females, males of both the Allen's and Anna's species put on  intriguing courtship displays--but the Anna's really go at it. They  perform maneuvers that would make a Blue Angel blanch. To impress  his prospective partner, the flashy emerald-and-fuchsia male zips  straight into the air, chirping as he goes. At an elevation of about  120 feet, when he is a mere dust mote against the sky, he hovers  briefly, then plummets straight down at the perched female. A  heartbeat away from crashing headlong into his intended, he veers  back up in a midair U-turn. As he swoops, he emits a startlingly loud  squeak, caused by compressed air against his tail feathers--the  hummingbird equivalent of a sonic boom. Such aerial acrobatics go  on constantly at the Arboretum, says Suddjian, because males use  the same display to defend their favorite Grevillea bushes from  hungry competitors.

Hummingbird enthusiasts who can't make it to the March 18  event can still enjoy the show during the week. The UCSC Arboretum  is open to the public every day from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. for self-guided  tours. Docents staff the gift shop Tuesday through Saturday from 10  a.m. to 4 p.m. and Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m. The Arboretum entrance is  located on Empire Grade in Santa Cruz, between the main and west  entrances to the UCSC campus.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/02-95/021795-UC_Santa_Cruz_Arbor.html "Permalink to 021795-UC_Santa_Cruz_Arbor")
