---
layout: post
title: Susan Harding Named Acting Dean Of UCSC's Division Of Social  Sciences
author: Francine Tyler
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Susan Harding, professor of anthropology, has  been named acting dean of the Division of Social Sciences at the  University of California, Santa Cruz. The appointment, which was  approved by the UC Office of the President last week, was announced  by UCSC Executive Vice Chancellor Michael Tanner.

Harding, who has been on the faculty since 1989, is a cultural  anthropologist who specializes in cultural narratives and politics.  She will serve through September 30, 1995, while the campus  conducts a national search for a permanent dean. The appointment is  retroactive to December 1, 1994.

"The faculty, staff, and students of the division will benefit  from Professor Harding's vision and leadership," said Tanner.

Harding served as Anthropology Board chair from 1990 to  1993\. In 1993, she received a Fellowship for University Teachers  from the National Endowment for the Humanities and a UC  President's Research Fellowship in the Humanities to complete a  manuscript about the rhetoric and narrative traditions of Jerry  Falwell's community in Lynchburg, Virginia. Harding spent seven  years doing fieldwork in Lynchburg as part of her investigation of  the rise of the Christian right as a political force during the 1980s.  The collection of essays is titled "The Afterlife of Stories:  Narrative Politics in Jerry Falwell's Community."

Harding is also author of "Remaking Ibieca: Rural Life in Aragon  under Franco" (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1984)  and "Statemaking and Social Movements: Essays in History and  Theory," edited with C. Bright (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan  Press, 1984).

Harding earned her doctorate in anthropology from the  University of Michigan in 1977, where she also earned her master's  and bachelor's degrees. She began teaching at UM in 1974 and was an  associate professor there when she came to UCSC in 1989.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/01-95/011395-Susan_Harding_named.html "Permalink to 011395-Susan_Harding_named")
