---
layout: post
title: Professor's Mentorship Inspires Family To Establish An Endowed Chair In Environmental Studies At UC Santa Cruz
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Inspired by the impact a professor's mentorship  had on their son, a Los Gatos couple has pledged a gift of $250,000  to the University of California, Santa Cruz, to establish an endowed  chair in environmental studies.

The gift from Dr. Alan G. Giberson and Margaret S. Lyons  Giberson of Los Gatos, California, establishes the Pepper-Giberson  Endowed Chair in Environmental Studies. The gift reflects the  Giberson family's desire to foster greater public awareness of the  need to protect and preserve the environment. It also honors  Professor Emeritus James Pepper for his "pivotal contribution" to  the environmental studies program at UCSC, said the Giberson  family.

The Pepper-Giberson chair was approved at today's (June 16,  1995) meeting of the Regents of the University of California.

The Gibersons have previously supported UCSC's Annual Fund  campaign, Shakespeare Santa Cruz, Long Marine Laboratory, and the  environmental studies program. But it was their son Erik's  experience as a UCSC undergraduate in environmental studies that  compelled them to fund an endowed chair. Erik Giberson graduated  from UCSC in 1994 and now works for an environmental planning  firm in the San Francisco Bay Area.

"Environmental considerations have been close to our hearts  for a long time," said Margaret Giberson, a trustee of the UC Santa  Cruz Foundation. "We're aware of the importance of environmental  quality to the quality of life in general, and education goes hand in  hand with that. Erik's experience focused our convictions. He was so  inspired by Jim Pepper's teaching--it really made it a living  discipline for Erik."

James Pepper, who joined the UCSC faculty in 1972,  specializes in land-use planning. After the 1989 Loma Prieta  earthquake, he was widely praised for his role in organizing a series  of public lectures that helped shape "Vision Santa Cruz," a  community organization that was instrumental in the rebuilding of  downtown Santa Cruz.

"This is a great honor," said Pepper, who retired in 1994 but  continues to teach on campus. "My career has been enriched by  working with exceptional students like Erik, and I am deeply  grateful for this legacy to our shared commitment to environmental  conservation and protection. It pleases me to know that this support  will help maintain the high standards of teaching and research that  are the cornerstones of the environmental studies program."

Erik Giberson's undergraduate thesis focused on the tension  between California's need for affordable housing and the constraints  placed on local government by growth-control efforts.

"It is a special pleasure to accept a gift that recognizes the  excellence of a program and the particular contributions of one of  our faculty," said UCSC Chancellor Karl Pister. "This campus places  special emphasis on undergraduate education, and this gift reflects  the best that we have to offer. This generous gift will enable UC  Santa Cruz to build upon its role as a leader in the field of  environmental studies."

Environmental studies is one of the most popular majors on  campus, and last fall, UCSC became the first campus in the UC  system to offer a doctoral program in environmental studies. Under  the terms of the gift, endowed chair holders will be environmental  studies faculty whose field includes environmental analysis in land- use planning; environmental policy and planning; environmental  regulation; land-use planning and biodiversity; and political  economy.

The creation of an endowed chair further enhances the UCSC  program, said Environmental Studies Board chair Michael Soule. "The  funds generated by the endowment can be used to help an existing  faculty member's research or to bring in a new faculty member, or to  offer courses that we wouldn't otherwise be able to offer," said  Soule. "We rarely receive support that offers us this degree of  flexibility."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/06-95/061695-Endowed_chair_in_en.html "Permalink to 061695-Endowed_chair_in_en")
