---
layout: post
title: The Fluid Flows Around Them&#58; Deep-Sea Worms Affect the Architecture of Black Smoker Chimneys
author: [Patti Parisi, Robert Irion]
---

PACIFIC GROVE, CA--Deep in the northeast Pacific Ocean, at 2,200  meters below sea level, scientists exploring a hotsprings area along  the mid-ocean ridge have found evidence that tube worms have a  hand in how "black smoker chimneys" evolve. In the March 31 issue  of the journal Science, researchers Terri Cook and Dr. Debra Stakes  of the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI) show that  tube worms--surviving on toxic chemicals--affect the architecture  of metal sulfide structures along the Juan de Fuca Ridge.

The mid-ocean ridges are the earth's spreading centers, where  the outer layer of the earth's rocky crust is created. As the seafloor  spreads away from the ridge, molten rock from deep within the earth  continually infills the space left behind. Seawater cools the molten  rock that will form new seafloor. As it does, however, the water  chemistry changes dramatically by heating and dissolving metals  such as iron, copper, and zinc, while becoming rich in hydrogen  sulfide. Under the immense pressure of thousands of feet of heavy  water column, these hot toxic fluids upwell through cracks in the  ocean floor and spew "smoke" charged with mineral particles. These  hydrothermal vent fluids are the lifeblood for bizarre creatures such  as the tube worms.

Hydrothermal vent sites were first discovered at a spreading  center near the Galapagos Islands in 1977 by researchers (including  coauthor Stakes) using the submersible ALVIN. The researchers saw  biological communities living and thriving in what terrestrial  organisms would consider very hostile conditions, such as  "rainstorms" of chemicals and the lack of sunshine, oxygen, or food.  Scientists were amazed to discover that many species of clams and  worms survive on toxic hydrogen sulfide that spews out of the  cracks in the seafloor.

As the metal sulfide particulates accumulate, they form  structures that look like smokestacks or a pipe organ, pumping out  the acidic fluid. Scientists noticed that some of the animals liked  to live directly on the walls of the structures to catch the downpour  of food. Until now, however, researchers did not know that the  biological communities actually play an important role in how the  structures grow.

The study reported in Science is based upon samples from the  Endeavour Segment, located about 500 kilometers west of Seattle.  What is unusual about the black smoker deposits in this location is  their enormous size and volume. For example, Godzilla, the largest  sulfide edifice reported in the Pacific, is almost 15 stories high.

"Mid-ocean ridge sulfide deposits have been studied since  1979, and scientists have commonly seen tube-worm remnants in  deposits, but they could only sample structures like Godzilla by  using the manipulator arm on a submersible," said Terri Cook,  coauthor of the report and a graduate student at UC Santa Cruz.  "Geologists could reach out with the arm and break off or pick up  chunks of rock from the top or bottom of the structure's wall, but  they had no access to the interiors."

The metal sulfide structures grow up and outward like trees,  so access to the interior is crucial in order to see its stratigraphic  layers (like a tree's growth rings) to tell how it has evolved over  time. Dr. Debra Stakes, coauthor and marine geologist with MBARI,  has developed an innovative submersible drill that can penetrate the  walls of the structures and remove solid, intact cores. The coring  device is revolutionary because it allows high-speed diamond-bit  coring to be accomplished by a submersible like the ALVIN or even a  remotely operated vehicle. The coring tool's ability to selectively  remove oriented cores from different levels of the black smokers  allowed Cook to unravel the sequence of events.

"We were able to take samples vertically along the structure,  and to go into the structure to look at the time series as it grows  outward," said Dr. Stakes. The 1991 expedition took place during a  National Science Foundation-sponsored cruise on WHOI's Atlantis II  using the submersible Alvin. The prototype coring device that was  used on the cruise proved successful on its maiden voyage to recover  the sulfide cores across the complex wall structures. "For the first  time we can not only see that biogeological interactions exist, but  we can see when and how the chemicals and minerals interact with  the creatures," said Dr. Stakes.

Dr. Stakes recovered three cores that were chock-full of the  tube structures. After making thin sections from the cores, Cook  noticed that the minerals in the concentric rings changed over time.

When the minerals seeping around the worms became too hot to  bear, the worms would die or abandon the structure in search of a  cooler habitat. The worms (and their symbiont bacteria) may  actually help form metal sulfides from the hydrothermal fluids,  ultimately transforming their casings into small conduits for the  hot fluids. Initially, minerals such as low-temperature barite and  jelled amorphous silica fill in the pores of the chimneys all around  the worms. With increased infilling, the chimneys cook at higher  temperatures and become either iron or zinc sulfides. "It is at this  middle temperature stage that the worms probably take off because  it is too hot for them to survive," said Cook.

The chemical replacement changes the original barite of the  worms' tubes to concentric rings of sulfide. Finally, at the highest  temperatures of about 350 degrees Celsius, chalcopyrite (copper- iron sulfide) forms and the wall recrystallizes, eventually erasing  evidence that the worms influenced the structures' growth.

Like coral reefs grow around organisms, the hydrothermal vent  structures grow around the worms. Stakes and Cook often call the  structures "sulfide reefs" as an analogy. The worm tube structures  change the way fluids circulate through the walls and control the  pattern of mineral deposition. "It's amazing to me that something as  small as these worms can influence a structure as large as  Godzilla," said Cook.

What is still unknown is which was there first: the barite or  the worms? Based on earlier papers, Cook believes that the worms  somehow aid in the deposition of barite; and that bacteria living  within the worms convert that barite to iron sulfide. "The next step  is for biologists and geologists to work together to try to document  the biological mechanisms for the evolution of these minerals."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/03-95/033095-Deep-sea_worms_affe.html "Permalink to 033095-Deep-sea_worms_affe")
