---
layout: post
title: Long Marine Lab To Charge Nominal Entry Fee
author: Robert Irion
---

**Note to calendar and events editors: The information in this news  release will affect any listing for Long Marine Laboratory that you  may print on an occasional or ongoing basis. Please change your  listing to reflect the new prices below.*

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The Joseph M. Long Marine Laboratory, an  increasingly popular stop on the Santa Cruz coast for students and  the general public alike, will begin charging a small entry fee for  some visitors to help meet the costs of its public education  programs.

As of August 15, entry to the UC Santa Cruz research station  will cost $2 for adults and $1 for students over age 16 and senior  citizens. A visit will remain free for children age 16 and under, as  well as for members of the Friends of Long Marine Lab.

"We are offering more tours than ever, our school tours are  getting more sophisticated, and we are conducting more outreach to  schools, teachers, and community events in the Monterey Bay  region," says Lisa M. Rose, executive director of the Friends of Long  Marine Lab. "We have hired an additional staff member and student  assistants to put all of this together."

During the 1993-94 school year, the lab hosted 186 organized  tours for 6,161 students. This year, says Rose, those numbers  jumped to 295 tours for 9,939 students. The total number of visitors  shows a similar trend: from 27,000 in 1993 to 32,500 in 1994. The  visitor count for 1995 already is running well ahead of that for  1994, Rose adds.

Visitors are treated to behind-the-scenes glimpses of  research at this active marine-science center. Docents offer  interpretations of marine life and research; highlights include an  aquarium with touch tanks full of sea critters and the signature  exhibit, a 90-foot skeleton of a blue whale. When research in  progress allows, visitors also enjoy a memorable stop inside the  marine-mammal enclosure, where researchers study sea lions,  harbor seals, an elephant seal, and two dolphins.

To enhance the lab's ability to host tours and educate the  public, work will soon begin on a $4.4-million Visitor Education  Center. The Friends of Long Marine Lab are more than halfway toward  their goal of raising all funds for the project through public  donations and grants.

Long Marine Lab is open to the general public on Tuesday  through Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m. Tours for groups of schoolchildren must  be arranged in advance. For more information about the lab's public  programs, call (408) 459-4308.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/08-95/081095-Long_Marine_Lab_to_.html "Permalink to 081095-Long_Marine_Lab_to_")
