---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Tip Sheet February 10, 1995 
author: Robert Irion
---

**Cosmology Lightweight Neutrinos Zip Nicely Into Latest Models Of The Universe**

The discovery that the ghostly particles called neutrinos may  have a small mass supports a special class of theoretical models of  how the universe has evolved, according to a group led by  cosmologist Joel Primack of UCSC.

Physicists at Los Alamos National Laboratory have found  strong evidence that neutrinos have mass. If the claim holds up, it  has deep implications for models of the universe that probe how its  structure is influenced by dark matter. Because neutrinos are  ubiquitous--a billion of them for each electron and proton in the  universe--even a vanishingly small mass could make them a crucial  element of dark matter.

Detailed computer simulations by Primack's team of the  evolution of structure in the universe show that neutrinos should  compose about 20 percent of its mass. That fraction is consistent  with early results from Los Alamos. Neutrinos represent a special  kind of dark matter--"hot" dark matter, which moves quickly, as  opposed to sluggish "cold" dark matter. The Los Alamos findings and  astronomical observations both strongly favor a dark-matter recipe  with cold plus hot ingredients, Primack says. Further, his group  proposes two types of neutrinos, each with a small but equal mass,  as the best theoretical solution yet to the dark-matter puzzle.

"Neutrinos with mass will force us to zero in on a small class  of models as acceptable," says Primack. Even the existence of one  species of neutrino with a mass above a certain threshold, he notes,  is "essentially fatal" to today's most popular class of models--those  that rely upon a low density of cold dark matter in the universe plus  a "cosmological constant." A paper by Primack's group will appear  shortly in the journal Physical Review Letters.

Contact: Joel Primack--(408) 459-2580 or joel@lick.ucsc.edu

**Environmental hazards Lead-poisoning therapy: More harm than good?**

A drug commonly used to treat lead poisoning may increase the  amount of lead absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract into other  parts of the body, according to a pilot study. The study's authors call  for research on a larger scale using people with moderate cases of  lead poisoning. Meanwhile, they urge doctors to keep patients in  lead-clean places while giving them the drug, called "succimer."  Otherwise, the patients' bodies might absorb additional lead and  store it in bones or critical organs, which can cause long-term harm.

"It's common sense that when you treat people for lead  exposure, you shouldn't return them to the same environment during  treatment," says toxicologist Donald Smith of UCSC. "This study  provides preliminary evidence that we should justifiably be  concerned when that happens--and the reality is that it may happen."

Succimer, considered the safest drug to treat lead poisoning,  clamps onto lead and other toxic metals and allows patients to  excrete them. However, it is not clear whether succimer also moves  lead from the blood, stomach, or intestines to other parts of the  body, such as the skeleton and brain. Such transfers would  compromise the effectiveness of the drug--especially for children,  who are most susceptible to lead's insidious behavioral and  neurological effects.

In the study, twelve men ingested a tiny amount of a  nonradioactive isotope of lead, followed by one dose of either the  drug or a placebo. By examining the subjects' urine, feces, and blood,  the research team found clues that succimer did cause the  participants to absorb some lead through their gastrointestinal  tracts. Smith and his coworkers published their results in the  October 1994 issue of the journal Environmental Research.

Contact: Donald Smith--(408) 459-5041 or drs@earthsci.ucsc.edu

**Marine toxicology Just a spoonful of blubber makes the pesticides come 'round**

A new technique designed to extract contaminants from tiny  samples of seal blood and blubber may prove to be the best means  yet for measuring levels of pollutants in living animals. The method,  perfected over the past year at UCSC, yields highly accurate  estimates--well within guidelines set by the Environmental  Protection Agency. It is so effective that scientists at the Centers  for Disease Control now plan to use it to measure dioxins in human  blood.

According to postdoctoral researcher Walter Jarman, part of a  team that developed the method, its charm is its practicality: "It  uses small samples, it's cheap, and it saves a lot of time."

One application is in marine mammalogy, Jarman says. Seals,  whales, and sea otters are particularly vulnerable to pollution  because their tissues can accumulate toxic substances. During  lifetimes spent munching tainted seafood, they become unwitting  storehouses for a wide range of unsavory ingredients. As such, they  may be the best guide to local pollution levels, or even serve as an  early warning system for new contaminants.

But effective surveys require many individuals. For this  reason, the new analysis--which can use samples from live animals--is ideal. Now researchers can test a beach-load of breeding  elephant seals or a pen of oil-slicked sea otters, rather than  depending on the occasional windfall of a long-dead beached whale.  In the first test run, Jarman and three coworkers sampled 20  elephant seals at the Ano Nuevo rookery and the Marine Mammal  Center in Sausalito. Using less than one gram of blubber and two  milliliters of blood from each seal, the researchers determined both  pesticide and PCB levels. Their work appeared last year in the  journal Chemosphere.

Contact: Walter Jarman--(408) 459-3769 or  wmjarma@ucsco.ucsc.edu (Writer: Pamela Donegan)

**Astrophysics Dwarf galaxies passing near Milky Way should create streams of  stars**

Galaxies often collide, spectacular events we can see across  the vast reaches of space. Now it appears such a collision is  happening in our own backyard. Astronomers last year found a new  dwarf galaxy hidden behind the dusty core of our Milky Way. Its  stretched shape suggests the Milky Way is ripping it asunder.

Astrophysicist Lars Hernquist of UCSC and his colleagues  recognized that the dwarf--now the closest known galaxy to our  own--offers a rare chance for scientists to study a tidal interaction  between galaxies. The team explored the possible history and fate of  the dwarf with a powerful tool: supercomputer simulations. The  study reveals that dwarf galaxies spiraling into the gravitational  maw of the Milky Way should leave visible trails of debris that  persist for a billion years or more.

Astronomers could learn much about the evolution of the Milky  Way by finding these faint remains. For instance, many such trails  would bolster a theory that the Milky Way formed and continues to  grow by capturing smaller galaxies and subsuming their stars and  gas. On the other hand, an absence of trails might mean that our  galaxy's appetite for stellar hors d'oeuvres is lower than many  astronomers believe.

"When the Milky Way disrupts a dwarf galaxy, it takes some  time for its stars to disperse," says Kathryn Johnston, a graduate  student under Hernquist. "We think that observations of these moving  groups of stars are feasible. If they exist, they will offer an  exciting window on the history of the galaxy." Johnston discussed  the research in January at a meeting of the American Astronomical  Society.

Contact: Kathryn Johnston--(408) 459-2774 or kvj@lick.ucsc.edu

**Seismology Cape Mendocino earthquakes: Aftershocks illuminate a triple threat**

Aftershocks of a large earthquake near Eureka, California, in  1992 have shed new light on the interplay among three tectonic  plates at the Mendocino Triple Junction, one of the country's most  complex seismic settings.

The Mendocino Triple Junction marks the southern limit of the  Cascadia Subduction Zone, which threatens the Pacific Northwest  with potential quakes of magnitude 8 or larger. The subduction zone  and two other faults largely vanish near the junction, leaving  seismologists in the past to scratch their heads about how the  tectonic plates interact there. That all changed on April 25, 1992,  when a magnitude 7.1 earthquake struck at the triple junction.  Within a day, UCSC seismologist Susan Schwartz and others deployed  portable seismometers to measure aftershocks in great detail.

Schwartz's study suggests that the Gorda plate, a wedge of  Pacific Ocean seafloor, is plunging in fits and starts under both the  North American and Pacific plates. In addition, the study indicates  that the fault between the Gorda and North American plates is weak:  It broke even though the stress in the direction of the earthquake  rupture was low before the main quake.

Schwartz compares the fault to the section of the San Andreas  Fault that caused the Loma Prieta quake of 1989. "In both cases, the  regional stress field was not favorably oriented to make the faults  slip," she says. "Only a little shear stress was enough to make them  move. However, even with a weak fault, you can still have large  earthquakes." She discussed her work in December at a meeting of  the American Geophysical Union.

Contact: Susan Schwartz--(408) 459-3133 or  susan@earthsci.ucsc.edu

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/02-95/021095-UCSC_Win_Science_.html "Permalink to 021095-UCSC_Win_Science_")
