---
layout: post
title: Economics Professor Carl E. Walsh Named To Top Planning Post At UC Santa Cruz
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Carl E. Walsh, a professor of economics at the  University of California, Santa Cruz, has been named associate vice  chancellor of planning and programs for the campus. The appointment  is effective July 1, 1995.

Walsh will work with Executive Vice Chancellor Michael  Tanner and the staff of the Planning and Budget Office on issues of  academic planning, resource allocation, new programs, and  interdivisional initiatives. He will also oversee external reviews of  degree-offering units on campus.

Walsh joined the economics faculty at UCSC in 1987 after  being affiliated with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco,  where he continues to be a visiting scholar. Walsh's work focuses on  the role of monetary policy; most recently he has studied the  optimal design of central banking institutions. His work is supported  by research grants from the National Science Foundation and the  Center for German and European Studies at UC Berkeley.

Walsh's half-time appointment as associate vice chancellor  will allow him to continue to teach and do research in the field of  economics.

Previous campus appointments include serving as chair of the  Board of Studies in Economics from 1988 to 1991 and as a member  of the Academic Senate Committee on Planning and Budget and the  Campus Academic Planning Council.

A former Fulbright research fellow and a research affiliate  with the National Bureau of Economic Research, Walsh has been on  the faculty of Princeton University and the University of Auckland,  New Zealand. He held a visiting appointment at UC Berkeley, where  he earned his doctoral and undergraduate degrees. He also held  visiting appointments with the Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve System and the Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City and  Philadelphia.

Walsh replaces Jorge Hankamer, a professor of linguistics,  who has held the position since 1990.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/06-95/063095-Economics_professor.html "Permalink to 063095-Economics_professor")
