---
layout: post
title: Editor's Advisory
author: Jim Burns
---

Patricia Nelson Limerick, who will receive $275,000 as one of 24  new MacArthur Fellows named today (June 12, 1995) by the John D.  and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, earned a bachelor's degree in  American studies in 1972 from the University of California, Santa  Cruz. Limerick was also the 1990 recipient of UCSC's Alumni  Achievement Award, presented by the campus's Alumni Association.  She is the fourth person affiliated with UCSC to receive a MacArthur  fellowship. The others are Shelly Errington, a professor of  anthropology, and former students Alfred Jay Cantor (History of  consciousness, Ph.D.) and Robert Shaw (Physics, Ph.D).

Background of award: Twenty-four new MacArthur Fellows were  named today (June 12, 1995) by the John D. and Catherine T.  MacArthur Foundation of Chicago. Among the people honored are  individuals in fields ranging from human rights, to theater, to  history, to fiction and poetry, and to biology and neuroscience. All  will receive MacArthur Fellowships, which range from $150,000 to  $375,000 over five years, or $30,000 to $75,000 annually, depending  on the age of the recipient. MacArthur Fellowships have no strings  attached. Recipients are free to use the awards as they wish. "The  creative person is at the heart of a society's capacity to improve the  human condition," said Adele Simmons, MacArthur Foundation  president. "By supporting these fellows, highly talented individuals  working in a wide range of fields, the foundation means to honor  creative persons everywhere." Individuals cannot apply for  MacArthur Fellowships. Instead, names are proposed to the  foundation by a group of more than 100 designated nominators in a  variety of professions and areas of the country. Their nominations  are reviewed by a twelve-member selection committee, which  meets seven times a year. Final approval for MacArthur Fellowships  comes from the Foundation's Board of Directors. There is no annual  quota of fellows and no predetermined time for naming them.  Including today's group, a total of 458 fellows have been named  since the program began in 1981. In the fourteen years since the  program began, the foundation has invested over $140 million in the  Fellows Program.

Background of recipient: Patricia Nelson Limerick is a professor of  history at the University of Colorado, Boulder. She has broadened  perspectives on the history of the American West through her  stories of women's history, ethnic histories, and environmental  history. In her influential book, The Legacy of Conquest: The Unbroken Past of the American West (1987), Limerick presented  a region whose defining experience was conquest: conquest of  nature, Indians, Mexicans, and often, conquest of the human spirit.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/06-95/061295-UC_Santa_Cruz_alumn.html "Permalink to 061295-UC_Santa_Cruz_alumn")
