---
layout: post
title: Nash Editions Presents Gift To UC Santa Cruz 
author: Barbara McKenna
---

What: Nash Editions partners Graham Nash and Mac Holbert will  present a portfolio of prints of selected photographs by Horace  Bristol to representatives from the University of California, Santa  Cruz.

When: Thursday, April 20, 11 a.m.

Where: Pasatiempo Inn, Highway 17 and Pasatiempo Drive

Summary: Graham Nash and Mac Holbert are the owners of Nash  Editions, producing fine artwork and photographic reproductions  using state-of-the-art digital-image manipulation and ink-jet  printing technologies. In 1994, Nash Editions invited photographer  Horace Bristol to produce a portfolio of his work, under Bristol's  personal supervision, on the Nash Editions presses.

This is the first digital photography portfolio ever produced.  The set of eight prints, released in 1993 in a limited edition, is  valued at $3,500. The portfolio will be housed in Special Collections  in the University Library at UCSC, enhancing a significant  photography collection that includes the only complete set of the  Edward Weston Project Prints as well as materials documenting the  social and environmental history of California.

Who:

Rita Bottoms: Head of Special Collections at the University  Library at UCSC. Bottoms and Keith Muscutt (see below) will receive  the gift on behalf of UCSC.

Mac Holbert: A graduate of Cowell College at UCSC, Holbert  worked as a student in the library's Special Collections in the late  1960s. He later became Graham Nash's personal manager. After many  years touring with Nash and managing his business affairs, Holbert,  who shares Nash's passion for photography, co-founded Nash  Editions, to which he now dedicates himself full time.

Keith Muscutt: Assistant Dean of the Arts at UCSC. Muscutt and  Rita Bottoms (see above) will receive the gift on behalf of UCSC.

Graham Nash: An internationally renowned musician and  environmental activist, Nash is also a photographer, collector of  photography, and philanthropist supporting a variety of fine-art and  documentary-photography causes. He is in Santa Cruz April 19 and  20 to perform in a benefit concert for victims of the 1995 floods.

Nash has a long-standing association with UCSC and the local  community and has made several donations of rare photographic  journals to Special Collections. His pioneering work in digital  photography led him, in collaboration with Holbert, to conceive of  converting ink-jet proofing presses to serve the needs of fine  artists and photographers. This resulted in the establishment of  Nash Editions, managed in partnership with Holbert.

An exhibition of Nash's photographic work, printed by  Nash Editions, is planned as part of a series curated by Rita Bottoms  to be shown at the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown,  Ohio, in 1996. This exhibit is one of several at the Butler drawn  from the University Library photographic archives.

Horace Bristol (not in attendance): An esteemed photographer,  Bristol produced some of his earliest and best-known work in a  photo-journalistic collaboration with John Steinbeck in the 1930s  to document migrant workers in the Central Valley of California.

The project became the foundation of Steinbeck's Grapes of  Wrath. During World War II Bristol worked as a naval photographer,  producing many images that caught the imagination of the public-- among them, "PBY Blister Gunner." With many credits for Life,  National Geographic, and other photographic journals, he went on to  document the occupation of post-WW II Japan. Now in his 80s,  Bristol emerged from retirement in 1991 and has produced a series  of retrospective exhibitions.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/04-95/042695-Nash_Editions_prese.html "Permalink to 042695-Nash_Editions_prese")
