---
layout: post
title: NEH Grant Will Help Preserve Aging Documents On The Stellar  History Of UC Santa Cruz's Lick Observatory
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Portions of the aging archive of the country's  oldest mountaintop research observatory will be preserved through a  $75,944 grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. The  grant will fund microfilming and computer indexing of holdings in  the Mary Lea Shane Archives of the Lick Observatory, housed in the  University Library at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

The grant, which names librarian Rita Bottoms as project  director, will be used to microfilm the journals, copybooks, and  correspondence of early directors, astronomers, and others at the  observatory from 1875 to 1937, including founder James Lick and  others instrumental in planning and constructing the observatory.  The grant also supports the conversion of the archive indexes into  computer form, which will then be accessible on the Internet.

A part of the University of California since its inception, the  107-year-old observatory has been affiliated with UCSC since 1966.  The archive, first organized by astronomer Mary Lea Shane in the  early 1960s, was transferred from the observatory to the University  Library's Special Collections department in 1969. Since its transfer,  the archive has been available for public viewing. "This material is a  rich treasury for students of the history of astronomy," says curator  Dorothy Schaumberg. "But many of the materials are over 100 years  old and in heavy use by researchers. They are fragile and  deteriorating." Once on microfilm, the original material will be  stored in a temperature-controlled vault in Special Collections.

The archive documents many bright moments in the  observatory's history, including the discovery of Jupiter's fifth  satellite by Edward Emerson Barnard in 1892. "This was  earthshaking news," says Schaumberg. "The first four satellites  were discovered by Galileo in the early 1600s." Lick astronomers  also collaborated with astronauts during a 1969 moon walk to  determine the precise distance between the earth and the moon and  to confirm that the moon is gradually moving away from the earth.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/01-95/012695-NEH_grant_helps_pre.html "Permalink to 012695-NEH_grant_helps_pre")
