---
layout: post
title: UCSC Chancellor Karl S. Pister Announces Retirement
author: Elizabeth Irwin
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Karl S. Pister, Chancellor of the University of  California, Santa Cruz since August 1991, has announced his  intention to retire, effective June 30, 1996. Chancellor Pister  included the announcement in his address to the UC Santa Cruz  Academic Senate this afternoon.

Dr. Pister was first named to the UCSC chancellor position for  an interim two-year appointment. In March 1992, with the  enthusiastic support of faculty and staff, the Regents approved the  president's recommendations for a regular appointment. He is the  sixth chancellor in the history of UC Santa Cruz. Last July, the  Regents voted to extend his appointment by two years.

Among his comments to the Academic Senate, Chancellor  Pister said, "This has been a very difficult decision for both Rita  (his wife) and myself. Coming to Santa Cruz, we were totally  unprepared for the warmth and graciousness extended to us by the  campus and the community over these last four years." Although  noting his plan to retire, Chancellor Pister emphasized, "The  academic year is just beginning. Lest there be any uncertainty, I  intend to exercise my responsibility as Chancellor with all the vigor  and effectiveness that I am able to muster. I look forward to another  productive and rewarding year for UC Santa Cruz." At the end of his  address, Chancellor Pister received prolonged applause from the  assembly of faculty, staff and students.

Dr. Pister's achievements as chancellor include vigorous  support of excellence in teaching, research and public service,  initiation of numerous projects in partnership with other segments  of education, and significant leadership in the Ft. Ord base  conversion project.

Campus academic programs have thrived during Chancellor  Pister's administration. U.S. News and World Report recently ranked  UC Santa Cruz as 13th--ahead of Harvard and many other well- respected universities--in a survey listing the nation's top  universities where the faculty "has an unusually strong commitment  to undergraduate teaching. The 1995 National Research Council  Survey of Research Doctoral Programs placed four of UCSC's  academic boards in the top 25% , with Astrophysics and Astronomy  and Linguistics ranked sixth and tenth, respectively.

The campus has benefited also from record numbers of  research contracts, grants and private donations, with three new  endowed chairs established and nearly $10 million in private gifts  received in the last year. Academic excellence also has been  recognized through an invitation to participate in the prestigious  Packard Fellowship program, in which faculty members received  $500,000 fellowships in the past two consecutive years.

An ardent advocate for increased public investment in  education and an outspoken champion for increasing the ethnic  diversity of the campus, Chancellor Pister has dedicated UC Santa  Cruz resources to improving educational opportunities for young  people throughout this region. Among UCSC's successful outreach  programs inspired and supported by Chancellor Pister is the  Monterey Bay Educational Consortium, a unique effort to encourage  collaborations among UC Santa Cruz, public schools and other  educational groups in the Monterey Bay Area. The project facilitates  the availability to schools of UCSC resources in teacher training and  educational research, especially in math and science.

To expand opportunities for a university education through  linkages with 13 neighboring community colleges, Chancellor Pister  founded the Leadership Opportunity  Awards program, which offers scholarships in the amount of  $20,000, plus summer work opportunities, to outstanding community  college transfer students. Funded entirely by private donations, 32  of these scholarships have been awarded over the past three years.

Chancellor Pister also has earned a reputation as a catalyst  for other types of regional collaboration, most notably through his  leadership in the Ft. Ord base conversion project. The Monterey Bay  Education, Science and Technology (MBEST) Center is operated by  UCSC and rooted in partnerships with CSU Monterey Bay and various  area governments and agencies. It is being developed now as a major  resource for regional economic development. Part of a military-base  conversion effort that was praised as a national model by President  Clinton during his recent visit, the Center will focus on issues of  environmental science, technology, and instrumentation,  biotechnologies, information sciences and technologies, and  educational and entertainment materials. The first project on the  site was hazardous materials removal training for workers who  subsequently were hired to assist with Ft. Ord clean up as part of  the base conversion process.

Dean of the College of Engineering at the University of  California, Berkeley from 1980 until his appointment at UC Santa  Cruz, Chancellor Pister began his distinguished career with the  University of California as a Lecturer in Civil Engineering at UC  Berkeley in 1947. He graduated in 1945 with a bachelor of science  degree in civil engineering (with honors) from UC Berkeley, where he  also earned a master of science degree in civil engineering. In 1952,  he earned a doctoral degree in theoretical and applied mechanics  from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Dr. Pister  specialized in the mechanics of solids and structures, earthquake  engineering, and computer-aided design of dynamic structures. He is  a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a  member of the National Academy of Engineering. In 1993, the  American Association for the Advancement of Science appointed him  as Chair of the Section on Engineering.

Chancellor Pister will be joined in retirement by his wife Rita  Olsen Pister. They are the parents of six children and grandparents  of five.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/10-95/102595-Chancellor_Karl_S_P.html "Permalink to 102595-Chancellor_Karl_S_P")
