---
layout: post
title: RNA World Scenario Of The Origin Of Life Gains Further Support 
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The theory that RNA was the central molecule in  the origin of life has received a major boost from a clever test-tube  experiment, in which researchers demonstrated that RNA can  execute a type of chemical reaction that is basic to all living cells.

Starting with 500 trillion bits of random RNA, molecular  biologists Charles Wilson and Jack Szostak of Harvard University's  Massachusetts General Hospital devised a way to find the few RNAs  that could stick most readily to another substance. Then, in a rapid- fire simulation of evolution on the early earth, they mutated the  RNAs to create a special RNA enzyme--a "ribozyme." The ribozyme  was able to forge a bond between atoms of carbon and nitrogen.

That reaction reveals a far broader set of chemical skills than  scientists previously had credited to RNA, says Wilson, now at the  University of California, Santa Cruz.

"All other known ribozymes carry out the same basic reaction:  breaking and making bonds in the RNA backbone between phosphorus  and oxygen," Wilson says. "Some RNAs cut and paste themselves  together, but that involves similar reactions. To test the idea of an  RNA world, we needed to look for other reactions beyond this  backbone chemistry."

The reaction targeted by Wilson and Szostak, the carbon- bonding process called "alkylation," would have been critical to the  success of RNA as life arose. "This basic reaction comes up in all  types of biological situations," Wilson says. "Our results suggest  that RNA could have reacted with other molecules that didn't look  like RNA. That's the first step of evolution toward a non-RNA world."

Wilson and Szostak published their work in today's issue (April  27) of the journal Nature. Until last year, Wilson was a postdoctoral  researcher in the laboratory of Szostak, a professor in the  Department of Molecular Biology at Massachusetts General Hospital.  Wilson now is an assistant professor of biology at UC Santa Cruz and  is a member of UCSC's Center for the Molecular Biology of RNA.

In today's organisms, nearly all chemical reactions are  catalyzed by proteins, powerful enzymes that have evolved to  master a bewildering array of tasks. However, proteins cannot carry  a cell's genetic information. That deed is the domain of the nucleic  acids: double-stranded DNA and its single-stranded relative, RNA.  Although DNA is more widely known, scientists have found that RNA  is far more complex and versatile.

Modern proteins and nucleic acids need each other to exist and  function. However, it is extremely unlikely that these two complex  types of molecules evolved together on the young earth. Within the  last decade, biologists have turned to RNA as a way out of this  chicken-and-egg paradox. In addition to acting as a genetic librarian  and stenographer, RNA can mimic proteins by triggering certain  reactions. But until now, that class of reactions had seemed limited.

Wilson and Szostak sought to push the edge of the RNA  envelope by accelerating the selective pressures that primitive RNA  might have faced. Their method, "in vitro evolution," is used in  several labs worldwide. In essence, it lets researchers find the  fittest chemical needles in an immense haystack of random  molecules--the sort of rich mixture that could have set the stage  for the first living cells.

Wilson and Szostak have applied for a patent on their method  of evolving ribozymes. They started by creating a pool of about 500  trillion RNA molecules, each consisting of 112 of the genetic units  that carry RNA's information. The middle 72 units of each molecule  were strung together overnight in random patterns by a  computerized machine called a nucleic-acid synthesizer. Although it  filled just a fraction of one test tube, that broth of RNAs was about  10 million times more complex than the genetic encyclopedia for a  human being.

Among those molecules lurked one that was especially adept at  latching onto a non-RNA substance. The researchers used a  discriminating screen to purge the molecules that couldn't latch on  at all, then made billions of copies of those that remained after each  screen. Remarkably, it took only seven such steps to isolate the one  piece of RNA that formed a tighter fit than the other 500 trillion.

Wilson and Szostak then sought to modify that RNA so it could  catalyze the carbon-nitrogen bond with no help from proteins. They  randomly changed some of the RNA's genetic units-, so that each one  had a 30 percent chance of being different from the corresponding  genetic unit in the starting framework. This led to another huge pool  of 80 trillion slightly different RNAs. Next, the researchers explored  the abilities of these mutated RNAs to stick to the non-RNA  substance and to catalyze the carbon-nitrogen alkylation.

Seven more screening steps led to one ribozyme that could turn  both tricks most speedily. Finally, Wilson and Szostak improved the  efficiency of this molecule 100-fold by mutating it further and  subjecting it to another round of screens.

Even so, the RNA enzyme is not nearly as fast as today's  natural proteins. "The slowness of this ribozyme might reflect the  intrinsic incompetence of RNA to carry out the reactions that  proteins do so well," Wilson says. "That may be why the RNA world  evolved into a protein world--proteins outcompeted RNA in these  functions. But we don't know that our ribozyme is the best one  possible. We could optimize it further."

To Wilson and Szostak's surprise, the apparent structure of  their final ribozyme looks like that of a well-known RNA molecule in  the cells of all living things: the cloverleaf-shaped "transfer RNA."  Wilson now is trying to determine why this shape arose in the  experiment and how it works. "It's striking to me that we started  with an enormous random pool with no bias," he says, "but we ended  up with basically the only RNA whose structure we really know."

The research was funded by the National Institutes of Health  and Hoechst A. G., a German chemical company. Wilson's postdoctoral  appointment was supported by the Jane Coffin Childs Memorial Fund  for Medical Research.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/04-95/042695-RNA_World_scenario.html "Permalink to 042695-RNA_World_scenario")
