---
layout: post
title: Ten Students From Regional Community Colleges Receive $20,000 Scholarships To Attend UC Santa Cruz
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Ten outstanding community college transfer  students have received prestigious scholarships that will enable  them to complete their undergraduate education at the University of  California, Santa Cruz. Recipients of Leadership Opportunity Awards  receive $10,000 scholarships for each of two years, as well as  assistance finding paid summer work experience in a field that  complements their academic studies, and the support of a strong  academic mentoring program.

The awards were established in 1993 by UCSC Chancellor Karl  S. Pister to recognize talented students who have overcome adverse  socioeconomic circumstances, have a demonstrated commitment to  assisting and improving the lives of others, and who might not  otherwise be able to attend UC Santa Cruz for financial reasons.  Several students are nominated by the presidents of each of thirteen  regional community colleges, and recipients are selected by Pister  in consultation with the Leadership Opportunity Awards Screening  Committee.

"Now in its third year, this program is making a difference for  some of the most talented, hardworking community college students  whose options might not otherwise include transferring to the  University of California," says Pister. "We are building a bridge  between the regional community colleges and the Santa Cruz  campus."

The program has been praised by the presidents of the  participating community colleges.

This year's recipients are:
* Thu Mong Duong of Salinas, Hartnell College
* Michael S. Duran of Gilroy, Gavilan College
* Raymond G. Emanuel of Daly City, College of San Mateo
* Ricardo A. Fiallos of Sunnyvale, Mission College
* Elsa M. Jimenez of Daly City, Skyline College
* Claudia S. Melendez of Santa Cruz, Cabrillo College
* Jose V. Moreno of San Jose, De Anza College
* Herbert G. Ruffin II, of Milpitas, San Jose City College
* Deondra L. Wilson of Los Gatos, West Valley College
* Magalli Yoho of Mountain View, Foothill College

Up to thirteen recipients are selected each year, and each  recipient will have the opportunity to gain valuable work experience  through paid summer jobs that are cosponsored by private- and  public-sector employers. Previous recipients have arranged summer  internships with IBM, the Santa Clara County Legal Aid Society, the  Santa Clara County Office of Education, the City of Watsonville, the  Yo Puedo Program of the Monterey County Office of Education, and  other organizations.

A $5.2 million endowment is being established to fund the  Leadership Opportunity Awards permanently. Significant new gifts  received during the past year include contributions from the Santa  Cruz Business and Professional Women, which funded the SCBPW  Scholarship, and Stephanie Mills, who funded the Mills Family  Scholarship. In addition, the first LOA fund-raiser was held in  February, a dance performance at Cabrillo College that raised more  than $20,000.

Named scholarships honor contributors of major gifts to the  LOA program. A gift of $10,000 establishes a named scholarship for  one year; an endowment of $200,000 creates a permanent named  scholarship.

Biographical information about the 1995-96 recipients  follows. For more information, call the UCSC Public Information  Office at (408) 459-2495.

Thu Mong Duong, Salinas: Duong and her family came to the United  States from Vietnam in 1990, and eight months later she enrolled at  Hartnell College. Now 27, Duong says the opportunity to go to school  and to earn a university degree is one way in which her life here is  very different from what it would have been had she stayed in  Vietnam. Duong plans to major in computer science at UCSC.

Michael Duran, Gilroy: For Duran, four years in jail may have saved  his life. Years ago, frustrated by a high school counselor who tracked  him into welding instead of college preparatory courses, Duran  rebelled the only way he knew how: he got involved with gangs and  drugs. Duran, who has seen many friends die and many more  incarcerated, says he learned the value of life while in jail. When he  was released in 1989 he made the choice to help others. "The young  people in the neighborhood look up to people who've been in prison-- like it or not," said Duran. "You have to choose to be a good or bad  role model." Since then, Duran, 35, has earned A.A. degrees in liberal  arts/university studies and humanities/social science from Gavilan  College. While at Gavilan, Duran, who was president of MEChA,  initiated a high school tutoring effort to encourage at-risk youth to  stay in school. He has also been involved with numerous community  organizations that encourage young people to avoid gangs, including  the City of Gilroy's Gang Task Force. Also at Gavilan, he helped  establish a peer mentor program for students on academic probation  and served in student government, on the affirmative action  committee, and on the Latino Advisory Committee. Duran, who  enrolled at UCSC last January, was thrilled to receive the  scholarship, which will reduce the number of hours he'll have to  work. "I was going to get here some way or another," he said. "The  scholarship will make it much easier." Duran hopes to teach at the  high school or college level and to publish books about Native  American and Chicano history. (Duran is the Thomas B. Porter  Scholar)

Raymond Emanuel, Daly City: It's been a long journey from a  childhood in Rangoon, Burma, to planning a career as a transplant  surgeon. Emanuel, who first saw the inside of a classroom at the age  of nine after his family emigrated to the United States, says it was  a chance meeting at a grocery store that helped change his life.  Although Emanuel attended a prestigious private high school in San  Francisco, he had worked 30 hours a week to afford the tuition and  said it came naturally to keep working after graduation. "I grew up  without role models," says Emanuel. "My parents were always poor,  and they still are. I never knew anything except working. I never  knew I could be a physician  and do something if I put my mind to it." But it was while working as  a food clerk at a grocery store near the UC San Francisco Medical  Center that Emanuel met a customer who was an anesthesiologist.  "He prodded me over the year to go into medicine, saying that I'd be  excellent for it, that I had the personality," says Emanuel. "Finally, I  decided to check it out." That first visit to the operating room led to  a summer research job, many days off spent watching surgery, and a  two-year stint volunteering in the emergency room at SF General  Hospital. Eighteen months later, Emanuel, now 32, enrolled at the  College of San Mateo. This past year, he was elected student body  president. He plans to major in biology at UCSC and marvels at how  different his life would be in Burma. "I'd probably have eight or nine  kids and be farming rice," he says. (Emanuel is the Neufeld-Levin  Family Scholar)

Ricardo Fiallos, Sunnyvale: Married with two young children, Fiallos  says his family fuels his desire to work hard and excel. "When I met  my wife, I found the motivation to do something with my life, and  now I want to set a good example for our kids," says Fiallos. "I saw  from other people that the only way to get ahead was to get more  educated. You cannot have a good life working menial jobs." Fiallos  moved to the United States from El Salvador at the age of nine as  that country's civil war was heating up in 1979. The transition was  exciting but also difficult, says Fiallos, who was thrilled to come to  "the land of baseball and football" but who was teased at school as  he struggled to learn English. Fiallos, 25, worked as a retail cashier  while he earned an A.A. in social science at Mission College, where  he was on the dean's list every semester. He tries to set an example  for his young co-workers, too. "A lot of young people work in retail,"  he says. "It's nice to talk to them. I just tell them you have to be  responsible, and just because you're married doesn't mean you can't  stay in school." Fiallos plans to major in history at UCSC and wants  to teach at the high school or college level.

Elsa Jimenez, Daly City: Although she's had a lifelong interest in  biology, Jimenez says she never thought about it seriously until she  enrolled at Skyline College. "I always thought that girls in science  were really brainy, but then a woman professor of mine encouraged  me to go into it," says Jimenez. "She completely changed my  perspective on women in science. She's somebody I really look up to."  Jimenez's fascination with science intensified in 1990 when her  mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. She researched drugs and  treatment options, and although her mother died last year, Jimenez  says the experience solidified her interest. "Now that I see how  science applies to the real world, it's even more interesting to me,"  says Jimenez, who grew up in El Salvador until she was eight years  old. For Jimenez, 22, the LOA scholarship represents a second chance  to attend the University of California. After high school, she had  been accepted at three UC campuses but was unable to start college  because her father had a disabling heart attack. In the meantime,  however, her mother's illness shifted her academic interests from  business and psychology to biology, which Jimenez plans to major in  at UCSC.

Claudia Melendez, Santa Cruz: To explain her own seemingly endless  capacity for work, school, and community involvement, Melendez  recalls that during her childhood in Mexico her father worked two  jobs while earning an M.B.A. "He worked very hard, and he always told  me I should go to college," says Melendez. "My mom didn't go. I  always wanted to be a good student, to live up to his expectations."  Melendez has followed her father's example, working two part-time  jobs--as a program assistant at the Cabrillo College Stroke Center  and a loan assistant at the Santa Cruz Community Credit Union-- while she was studying toward an A.A. degree in sociology at  Cabrillo. For nearly two years, Melendez, 27, has also volunteered as  a writer and editor at El Andar newspaper. Last year, she co-wrote  and acted in a play that was performed at the Viva Zapata event at  the Santa Cruz Civic Auditorium. Melendez, who first came to the  United States after high school, plans to major in Latin American  and Latino studies at UCSC. She hopes to pursue a career in  journalism or international relations to help foster a greater  understanding among Americans of the problems facing Mexico today.  (Melndez is the Mills Family Scholar)

Jose Moreno, San Jose: This summer marked the fourth time that  Moreno participated in a 500-mile relay run as the captain of the  American Indian Spiritual Marathon Team. The run crosses the  Mojave Desert, Tehachapi Mountains, and Sonora Pass in less than a  week. "When it comes to running 500 miles, it's one foot in front of  the other," says Moreno. "That's the way any journey begins."  Moreno's educational journey was nearly derailed in high school,  when he came close to dropping out. Fortunately, a counselor  recommended a different school, and Moreno says the move gave him  the tools to change his life; he now volunteers twice a month at the  school. The first in his family to go to college, Moreno, 23, was a  magna cum laude honors student at De Anza College. He plans to  study cultural anthropology at UCSC. He is drawn to the "holistic"  nature of anthropology and the opportunity to study all aspects of  human beings. In his scholarship application, he wrote: "One of my  goals is to bridge people of different world views together in mutual  understanding and respect." Moreno notes that he is accepting the  scholarship on behalf of "all those who have helped me along the  way."

Herbert Ruffin II, Milpitas: Like many students right out of high  school, Ruffin says he lacked focus when he first went to college. "I  was like all the kids. I thought I knew it all," says Ruffin, 26. "I'd  just left the house and was beginning to live on my own." Ruffin took  some classes and played some football but was not a particularly  serious student. After he left school, he worked a number of jobs,  including as an inspector at a computer chip manufacturer and as a  game tester for Atari, and almost joined the Air Force. By 1992,  Ruffin knew he had to do something more with his life, and he  enrolled at San Jose City College. Several instructors inspired  Ruffin to pursue writing and his interest in history and African  American studies, among other subjects. He tutored students in  several subjects and is now interested in becoming a teacher. He  plans to pursue an independent major at UCSC that will combine  psychology, philosophy, ethnic studies, and history. "I have to at  least give myself a chance," says Ruffin. "I don't want to think back  years from now and see I just did this and that." Ruffin is also a  versatile musician who plays keyboard, bass, and piano, writes hip- hop rap tunes, and "samples" music by manipulating recordings.  (Ruffin is an Alfred E. Hahn Scholar)

Deondra Wilson, Los Gatos: Working in military intelligence for the  Army for four years has had a lasting impact on Wilson's life. First,  the nature of her military work helped her develop a career goal-- Wilson will major in computer engineering at UCSC and hopes to  work in the computer field after graduation. Second, she discovered  her talent for motivational speaking when she was selected by the  Baltimore-area recruiting battalion to address at-risk high school  students. Lastly, Wilson enjoyed the experience of being a role model  for inner-city youth, and she plans to continue to be involved with  schools. "I had a sheltered, middle-class life, and I thought everyone  grew up like I did," says Wilson. "It was an eye opener. The students  really wanted to know that there's another route to take." Wilson,  25, looks forward to helping fill the need for positive role models  for young people, and she is hopeful that her success as an African  American woman will encourage others to stay in school and define  challenging goals for themselves. (Wilson is an Alfred E. Hahn  Scholar)

Magalli Yoho, Mountain View: Yoho emigrated with her family to the  United States from Peru in 1990. Although she spoke no English at  the time, Yoho found a job in a cafe on her second day in this country.  That same drive and motivation fueled her desire to continue her  education in the United States after leaving a socially,  economically, and politically troubled Peru. She enrolled at Foothill  College two years ago and now plans a double major in economics  and Latin American and Latino studies at UCSC. She hopes to pursue a  career in government or community service, perhaps through an  international service organization such as the United Nations. Yoho's  husband, Jason, is also enrolling at UCSC this fall. In addition to  community service and work with her church, Yoho, 27, has helped  numerous immigrants from Mexico and Latin America make the  transition to life in the United States. "Like me, they're all dealing  with the difficulties of a new language--you want to communicate  with people, but you struggle just asking for an address or the time,"  says Yoho. "Education is the key to success and the best way to  integrate into our new society here in the United States. Now this  country is our country, and we, as immigrants, should love and  respect it."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/09-95/091595-UCSC_95-96-Leaders.html "Permalink to 091595-UCSC_95-96-Leaders")
