---
layout: post
title: Visionary Ecologist Stanley Cain Dies At 92; Helped Establish Environmental Studies At UC Santa Cruz
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Stanley A. Cain, a leading ecologist who served as  an assistant secretary in the U.S. Department of the Interior in the  1960s, died of pneumonia April 1 at the Hillhaven Extended Care  nursing home in Santa Cruz. He was 92 and had suffered from  Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade.

Cain most recently had served as an adjunct professor of  environmental studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He  was chairman of a committee that planned UCSC's College Eight,  which opened in 1972 with an emphasis on environmental studies.  Cain also had served as an environmental consultant to UCSC's  founding chancellor, Dean McHenry, before the sprawling 2,000-acre  campus opened in 1965.

Cain's academic specialty was botany, but he was widely  acknowledged for pioneering the study of the relationship between  people and the environment. Partly because of his work, conservation  became an increasing national concern from the 1940s through the  1960s. In 1965, President Lyndon Johnson recognized Cain's  expertise by appointing him Assistant Secretary of the Interior for  Fish, Wildlife, and Parks, a post he held until 1968.

Born in Indiana in 1902, Cain received his bachelor's degree  from Butler University and his Ph.D. in botany from the University of  Chicago. He held teaching positions at Butler, Indiana University, the  University of Tennessee, and the University of Michigan, where in  1950 he founded the Department of Conservation--the first such  academic department in the country. Aside from his federal service,  he remained at Michigan until his mandatory retirement in 1972. He  then moved to UC Santa Cruz, where he taught actively through the  1970s.

Among his many honors, Cain was a member of the National  Academy of Sciences and had served as president of both the  Ecological Society of America and the first National Botanical  Congress of America. He wrote two books and published well over  100 articles in scientific journals. In 1927, he leaned out of a  biplane to take photographs for his first research paper--the first  use of aerial photography in the biological sciences.

Cain is survived by a son, Stephen, of Ann Arbor, MI, and seven  grandchildren. His wife, Louise Cain, died in Santa Cruz in 1993.

An informal memorial service for Cain is planned for Saturday,  April 29, from 2 to 4 p.m. at the Farm and Garden on the UCSC  campus. Memorial contributions to the Louise Cain Apprentice  Scholarship Fund may be sent to the Friends of the Farm and Garden,  Agroecology Program, UCSC, Santa Cruz, CA, 95064.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/04-95/040395-Visionary_ecologist.html "Permalink to 040395-Visionary_ecologist")
