---
layout: post
title: Ronald Henderson Named Dean Of Graduate Studies At UC Santa Cruz
author: Francine Tyler
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The Office of the President of the University of  California has approved the appointment of Ronald Henderson as dean  of the Division of Graduate Studies at University of California, Santa  Cruz. Henderson is a research professor of psychology and education.  His appointment is retroactive to January 1.

As dean, Henderson oversees programs and issues that affect  about 1,000 graduate students at UCSC, including recruitment,  teaching and research support, enrollment planning, and graduate  student life. Henderson, who participated in the early retirement  program, is serving as dean on recall status at 49 percent time.

Henderson replaces professor emeritus of biology Charles  Daniel, who has stepped down to pursue his research on growth  processes in cells. Daniel, whose work focuses on breast cancer,  recently received two major research grants that will support new  studies on the activity of genes that regulate normal development  and may also be involved in malignancy.

Henderson, who joined the UCSC faculty in 1977, specializes in  child development, social and cultural influences on development,  instructional psychology and technology, mathematics education, and  academic motivation. His specific research interest is in the  development of instructional approaches that will increase  achievement and participation in mathematics by Latino students,  women, and other groups that are underrepresented in math and the  sciences. He specializes in the development of motivation to achieve  and participate in mathematics. Two recent research projects  involve partnerships with public schools in Watsonville and Salinas,  which he has pursued under the auspices of the UCSC-based National  Center for Research on Cultural Diversity and Second Language  Learning and through the California Academic Partnership Project,  which teams up educators from secondary and postsecondary schools  with representatives of business to help prepare more high school  students for college.

Henderson's previous administrative positions include serving  as provost of Crown College from 1989 to 1993; he was chair of the  Academic Senate in 1986-88 and has served on the senate's  Academic Personnel Committee and the Committee on Budget and  Planning.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/02-95/021495-Ronald_Henderson_na.html "Permalink to 021495-Ronald_Henderson_na")
