---
layout: post
title: New Contract Will Promote Redevelopment In Monterey Bay Region By Guiding Technology Center At Fort Ord
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--"If you build it, they will come." That may work in  Hollywood fantasies, but it rarely holds true in the harsh reality of  today's business world. Many new ventures fail for lack of clients  after sparkling new buildings are in place. Such failures are most  painful when the venture is an ambitious "research park," carrying  the promise of revitalizing a depressed region by bringing in new  industries and new jobs.

That's why organizers of the University of California's  Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center at  the former Fort Ord military reservation are taking such care to plan  ahead, and plan well. They are investing redevelopment funds from  the federal government in defining the myriad strengths of the  Monterey Bay Area and creating a blueprint to help guide the growth  of the MBEST Center--and the economic rebirth of the region--over a  period likely to last decades.

This month, project managers at UC Santa Cruz, lead campus  behind the MBEST Center, hired the San Francisco-based Economic  Competitiveness Group at DRI/McGraw-Hill to begin working toward  those goals. The consulting firm will bring its international  experience to bear on a thorough study of the existing assets of the  Monterey Bay region, including its many research and teaching  institutions. The consultants will analyze the needs of the  industries and agencies that planners would like to attract to the  MBEST Center and elsewhere, and will advise how to market the  region most effectively to those potential customers.

"We are looking to DRI/McGraw-Hill to help us identify the  competitive advantages of the Monterey Bay region and the MBEST  Center," says Lora Lee Martin, the center's director of program and  policy development. "We know this project can draw upon the  strengths of the entire region, including Silicon Valley. What we  need to understand is how to compete more aggressively to attract  the kinds of industries that will help this region position itself for  the coming century."

James Gill, associate vice chancellor for research at UCSC,  notes that economic forecasts about the reuse of Fort Ord point to  the MBEST Center as the largest single generator of new jobs.  Indeed, even before Fort Ord closed, regional officials identified the  MBEST Center as one of the cornerstones to the successful reuse of  the property, along with the new California State University,  Monterey Bay.

"This evaluation by DRI/McGraw-Hill will assist us in planning  strategies to attract private businesses and government agencies to  the center," says Gill, who directs the UC Fort Ord Project. "It also  will help local planners do the same by providing, for the first time,  extensive field testing of the interests of technology companies in  the Monterey Bay region."

For its services over the next nine months, DRI/McGraw-Hill  will receive $325,049 from the UC Fort Ord Project. By the end of  November, project managers expect to sign another contract, for a  similar amount, with a consulting firm that will assemble a  coordinated business plan with realistic economic projections, as  well as a revised master plan for land use. A $1.2 million grant from  the Economic Development Administration of the U.S. Department of  Commerce, received in March 1995, will pay for the two contracts  and for other planning efforts for the MBEST Center.

Planners have identified four "market niches" around which  activities at the MBEST Center will revolve. Chosen for their  relation to existing regional strengths and for their growth  potential, the niches are environmental science, technology, and  instrumentation, especially coastal applications; biotechnology,  emphasizing agricultural and marine applications; information  science and technologies; and multimedia education and  entertainment materials.

Directing the analysis of these market niches will be James  Gollub of DRI/McGraw-Hill's Economic Competitiveness Group. Gollub  leads several projects for DRI on creating strategies to revitalize  areas affected by military closures, including a new project in Los  Angeles and a recently completed project for California State  University, Long Beach. He was the initial consultant to the Joint  Venture: Silicon Valley initiative and has worked on other economic  restructuring projects in the midwestern U.S., New York, eastern  Europe, Japan, China, and India.

Gollub expects to offer perspective to UCSC planners on the  ever-changing global marketplace for major projects such as the  MBEST Center. "Technology parks do best when they are viewed as  integral to a broader set of actions intended to reinforce the  economy, not simply as industrial islands," he says. "But such  development efforts frequently fail when their sponsors are guilty  of the 'field of dreams syndrome' in which, because of good faith and  inspiration, sponsors invest and build, believing that industries will  choose to come--which they may not, or may take 25 years to do.  Supply, no matter how beautiful, does not equal demand."

Gollub and his team will study both sides of that equation,  driven by the four market niches. They will refine the niches and  determine their potential as attractors to businesses and  institutions in the region, nationally, and globally. Then, they will  scrutinize what the Monterey Bay region has to offer prospective  industries and agencies, from human resources and accessible  technology to financing, infrastructure, acceptable taxes and  regulations, and quality of life for workers. Finally, they will make  specific proposals for how the MBEST Center and the region can take  advantage of the most likely market trends.

"Our client is not just the MBEST Center, but the region,"  Gollub adds. "We'll be acting locally, but thinking regionally. This is  a regional initiative, and we want to identify the assets of the  region and use them to the best effect."

DRI/McGraw-Hill, based in San Francisco, will subcontract  with several other firms on portions of the market niche plan. They  include Economic & Planning Systems of Berkeley, Applied  Development Economics of Berkeley and Sacramento, and DMS  Research & Consulting of Santa Cruz. Richard Gordon, associate  professor of politics at UCSC and director of UCSC's Silicon Valley  Research Group, also will advise on the project.

The U.S. Army has conveyed or will convey about 1,040 acres at  Fort Ord to the University of California, about 435 acres of which  are developable for the MBEST Center. UC will preserve the  remainder as unique coastal chaparral habitat through the UC Natural  Reserve System and the Campus Reserve System of UCSC.

Early plans for the center call for five to seven million square  feet of space for research and development, industry, offices, retail,  education, and housing, constructed over a period extending through  the year 2045. Previous consultants have concluded that the center's  activities could support 3,000 new jobs over the next 20 years, and  ultimately about 12,000 jobs. Both the market niche plan and the  business plan will refine those projections considerably.

Lora Lee Martin, who serves as a nonvoting member of the Fort  Ord Reuse Authority (FORA), says both plans will emphasize  collaboration with other jurisdictions in the Monterey Bay region,  including those most immediately affected by the base closure. "We  want to create a center that will attract new companies and  agencies, while working closely with others such as FORA and the  Monterey Bay Futures Network so that all of our projects mesh  well," Martin says. "Our goal is to contribute to the strength of the  regional economy, from one end of the Monterey Bay research  crescent to the other."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/10-95/102795-Contract_aides_Mont.html "Permalink to 102795-Contract_aides_Mont")
