---
layout: post
title: Volunteers Needed For Project Celebrating Earth Day At UC Santa Cruz
author: Francine Tyler
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA­Sunday, April 30, a group of students and others at the University of California, Santa Cruz, will stencil "No dumping, flows to bay," notices on campus storm drains to celebrate Earth Day.

The event takes place from 8:30 a.m. to noon. During that time, teams of volunteers will stencil the reminder on storm drains in commonly used areas of the UCSC campus. Organizers hope to stencil nearly half of the 500 drains on campus with the notice, heightening on-campus awareness of the connection between what flows into the storm drains and the water quality in the bay.

"A lot of people are uninformed about the hazards of dumping substances down storm drains, or they don't know what's hazardous," said project coordinator Trudi King, a Chancellor's Undergraduate Internship Program participant working in UCSC's Office of Environmental Health and Safety.

Additional volunteers are needed. Members of Surfrider Foundation, a group of environmentally conscious surfers, are assisting in the project and recruiting volunteers.

For more information about the project or to volunteer, please call Trudi King at Environmental Health and Safety, (408) 459-2553. Volunteers may also come to the Bay Tree Bookstore parking lot on the UCSC campus at 8:30 a.m. the day of the event.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/04-95/041395-Volunteers_needed_f.html "Permalink to 041395-Volunteers_needed_f")
