---
layout: post
title: Annual Journal Pays Tribute To Late Poet/Printer William Everson
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--When he launched Equinox Press in 1947, the late  master poet-printer William Everson explained his desire for  establishing the fine letterpress this way: "As a creative man the  richest thing I can do is to write a poem, and the next is to print it."  He believed that when text is transformed from manuscript to  printed piece it is elevated "from simply utilitarian into a  transcendent mode in its own right."

Everson's vision sparked a flourishing fine press community in  Santa Cruz and is partly responsible for the dramatic rise during the  last 25 years in the production of artists' books--books that fuse  text, fine arts, and the book arts of typography, papermaking, and  binding.

In a tribute to his life and work, the editors of the journal  Quarry West have released a special edition honoring Everson and  exploring the field of book arts. Quarry West 32: The Poet as Printer:  William Everson & The Fine Press Artists' Book presents an intimate  view of Everson and examines the medium in which the poet-printer  worked.

Quarry West is printed annually at the University of California,  Santa Cruz, where Everson was a poet-in-residence for nearly a  decade. Quarry West 32 presents essays, poems, and other writings  by leading poets, authors, printmakers, journalists, and scholars  whom Everson counted among his friends and colleagues. It also  presents a number of Everson's poems and reproductions of some of  Everson's most compelling broadsides.

A native Californian, Everson joined the Dominican brotherhood  in 1951 and, for two decades, penned his poetry under the name of  Brother Antoninus. When he shed his monk's robes in 1969, Everson  came to live in Santa Cruz, where he remained until his death at the  age of 81.

Everson taught poetry at UC Santa Cruz between 1969 and  1978 and many former students consider him a mentor. As novelist  James Houston notes, Everson "inspired a generation of younger  printers to carry on the flame of his craft and art."

Throughout his career, Everson regarded poetry writing as the  first step in a two-part process. The poem was complete only when  it was printed. When he received the printed copies of his poem  Tendril in the Mesh, Everson wrote in delight to printer Clifford  Burke:

Your book has been around for a week--many copies fetched  from Peter's stock--they float in the room, levitate, shift in the  sun, dance in the rainy spring weather. Their presence has enchanted  me. I am in love with them.

That is why I say your book. A printer, every once in a while,  possesses a text and makes it his own. He reaches into the inner  essence of the work, and finds the germ of its truth-of-being, and by  an act of creative force makes it his own. It becomes his. Before him  the work exists only in potentia, inert, a manuscript merely. Then  the masculine spirit of the printer clasps it, embraces it, and out of  its ambience something superlative is produced.

The second section of Quarry West 32 focuses on the book as  an art form, and specifically on an exhibition of artists' book titled  "Dressing the Text: The Fine Press Artists' Books." The exhibit  opened in Santa Cruz in April 1995 and is on a national tour across  the country through March 1998. It is cosponsored by the Art Museum  of Santa Cruz County and the Printers' Chappel of Santa Cruz (an  informal organization of book artists established in Santa Cruz 15  years ago). The exhibit presents 48 artists' books selected by jury  from roughly 200 submissions. Jury members are Ruth McGurk  (Peripatetic Press), Felicia Rice (Moving Parts Press), Peter Thomas  (Peter & Donna Thomas), and Gary Young (Greenhouse Review Press).

Quarry West has been published annually at the University of  California, Santa Cruz, since 1971. The journal presents poetry,  poetry in translation, fiction, art, essays, and reviews. Quarry West  32 is edited by Ken Weisner and guest editor Felicia Rice. This issue  was printed with support from the Cultural Council of Santa Cruz  County.

Copies of Quarry West are $15 and can be obtained by writing  to Quarry West, c/o Porter College, UC Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, Calif.,  95064 or by calling (408) 459-2951.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/12-95/120795-Annual_journal_pays.html "Permalink to 120795-Annual_journal_pays")
