---
layout: post
title: Militant Trade Unionism Is Alive And Well, Says Author Of New  Book Based On Three-year Study Of Longshoremen's Local 10 In  San Francisco
author: Francine Tyler
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--When sociologist David Wellman began an in-depth  study of the Longshoremen's Union on the San Francisco waterfront,  he expected that he would ultimately write yet another book on the  decline of American labor and the death of militant trade unionism.

He was wrong.

In his new book, The Union Makes Us Strong: Radical Unionism  on the San Francisco Waterfront (New York: Cambridge University  Press, 1994), Wellman concludes that waterfront trade unionism is  alive and well. Moreover, he offers insights into the character of the  American worker and the dynamics of the workplace and suggests  that this country's service sector is poised for a surge of union  organizing. The book will be released to stores next month.

Wellman, a professor of community studies at the University  of California, Santa Cruz, acknowledges that his findings conflict  with the dominant view of labor, and he attributes the difference to  his unique research experience. Wellman gained unprecedented  access to both Local 10 of the International Longshoremen's and  Warehousemen's Union (ILWU) and to the Pacific Maritime  Association, which represents employers. What he witnessed was  the type of vital exchange between union members and management  that had supposedly died decades ago.

Local 10 is one of the major longshore locals of the ILWU.  Wellman, who spent three years immersed in the world of "gang  bosses," "lashers," and "hold men," saw the union systematically  challenging management's rule on the docks. The interactions  surprised him because employers ostensibly control the workplace  under the terms of collective bargaining agreements. "American  unionism looks quite different than conventional wisdom suggests  when you actually observe everyday union practices," says Wellman.

"It goes back to the roots of our culture. Americans don't like  to take orders," he explains. "But the Constitution doesn't apply on  the job, and there's no guarantee of free speech inside the plant gate.  That makes people angry, and I think that's why American workers  tend to be more militant on the shop floor than their European  counterparts."

Wellman believes that labor scholars who have proclaimed the  death of militant unionism have failed to look beyond formal labor  agreements. What he saw is not unique to longshoremen or their  industry, he asserts, adding: "If I'm right about the state of unionism  and the spirit of the American worker, it means the service sector  and Silicon Valley are ripe for union organizing, and so is  California's hospitality industry--which includes hotel, airline, and  restaurant workers."

Written in a style that is accessible to the lay public,  Wellman's book offers a detailed view of the daily workings of the  longshore operation, and it documents the dispute-management  process on which both the union and employers rely.

"During my first two years, there were 800 disputes in the San  Francisco-Oakland port district," says Wellman. "And the arguments  came down to the most basic questions that labor and management  deal with: who controls how the work will be done, how fast it will  be done, how many men do it, and what equipment is used. Collective  bargaining has not eliminated contests over how the work shall be  conducted."

Wellman dubs such union challenges "defensible disobedience  on the docks" and describes the grievance machinery as a "healthy,  productive process."

"They fight a lot--if it were a marriage, you would want a  divorce," says Wellman. "But the process allows the two sides to  pursue their common agenda of moving cargo and their conflicting  agendas at the same time. Rather than settling disputes, the  contract is a weapon used by both sides." Organized workers who  have a say in how the work gets done are better workers than those  who are denied a "voice," concludes Wellman.

Local 10 is made up of about 3,000 men and women who load  and unload cargo. Wellman, who conducted his research full-time  between 1978 and 1981, began each day at the dispatch hall,  watched the loading and unloading of ships, observed dispute  resolution, and attended union meetings, negotiating sessions, and  caucuses held by both sides. He began the project with permission to  observe the union's activities and three months later was invited by  employers to observe them as well. During the writing of the book,  which took almost ten years, Wellman shared drafts with both sides  with the understanding that neither side was allowed to censor the  author but that he would try to incorporate their feedback,  particularly when it differed from his own viewpoint.

"It's very, very rare that an outside scholar is given access by  both sides to view the process," says Wellman. "But after three  months they treated me like a fly on the wall."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/01-95/012495-Unionism_alive_and_.html "Permalink to 012495-Unionism_alive_and_")
