---
layout: post
title: Founding UC Santa Cruz Provost To Discuss Importance Of  Diversity In Higher Education As Part Of Chancellor's Seminar  Series
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--In recent years, there has been a growing  recognition in many institutions of the value in promoting ethnic,  gender, and other forms of diversity. But diversity is more than a  recent concern for sociologist Herman Blake, who has devoted much  of his 30-year career to fostering and advancing diversity in higher  education. Blake will discuss diversity and its fundamental  importance to institutional quality in a free public lecture at the  University of California, Santa Cruz, on May 8 at 7:30 p.m. in  Classroom Unit 1.

Blake is founding provost of Oakes College at UCSC, where he  was a member of the sociology faculty for eighteen years. Since  leaving UCSC in 1984, he has held the positions of president at  Tougaloo College in Mississippi, Eugene M. Lang Visiting Professor of  Social Change at Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, and currently,  professor of sociology, anthropology, and education and vice  chancellor for undergraduate education at Indiana University-Purdue  University, Indianapolis. "My focus over the past 30 years has been the same," Blake  says. "Within all the different venues--Santa Cruz, an historically  black college, an elite private school, and an urban university--I  have found that there is a creative consequence to generating and  supporting diversity."

"Herman doesn't regard diversity as a problem; he sees  opportunities in diversity," says Donald Rothman, a longtime  colleague of Blake's who is acting provost of Oakes College and a  senior lecturer in writing at UCSC. "He is interested in discovering  the strengths and intelligence that will emerge from cultural, class,  and racial diversity. The broader wisdom that we gain from that kind  of interaction is clear to him."

Blake has gained widespread respect for accomplishments in  promoting diversity and supporting underrepresented students. He  has created community service programs, including the Cowell  College Extramural Education and Community Services Program at  UCSC; developed opportunities for students, faculty, and  administrators of different racial and ethnic groups to  communicate; and researched and written extensively on diversity  and social change.

Blake's lecture is part of the Chancellor's Distinguished  Seminar Series on Mission, Quality, and Diversity, established in the  fall of 1993 by Chancellor Karl S. Pister and the Academic Senate.  The quarterly seminars are the public part of a program in which  prominent women and minorities spend a day with faculty and  students to discuss how to improve the quality of higher education  in the United States.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/04-95/042495-Founding_UCSC_provo.html "Permalink to 042495-Founding_UCSC_provo")
