---
layout: post
title: UCSC Scientists To Help Improve Seismological Tools For Finding Oil And Gas Reserves
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Billions of barrels of oil lurk beneath the floor of  the Gulf of Mexico, shrouded by twisted layers of rock and domes of  salt. If Ru-Shan Wu's group does its job well, the oil industry soon  will have far better tools to find that black gold.

Wu and his colleagues at the UC Santa Cruz Institute of  Tectonics are developing a new way to make 3-D images of  subterranean structures that hide deposits of oil and natural gas.  Their method promises to work hundreds or even thousands of times  faster than existing 3-D mapping techniques, which require too much  computer memory and expensive processing time to make them  feasible for widespread use. The U.S. Department of Energy will fund  the UCSC team's work during the next three years with a grant of  $697,000.

The grant is part of a federal program known as the Advanced  Computational Technology Initiative (ACTI), which invites  collaboration among U.S. national labs, industries, and universities.  ACTI projects are intended to help gas and oil companies tap into  U.S. petroleum fields to the fullest possible extent--thereby  lowering the nation's dependence on foreign oil.

"This is a good opportunity for us to apply the theoretical  techniques we have developed in recent years to a crucially  important technology," says Wu, a research geophysicist. "There are  risks involved--it may not work in very complex geologic  environments. But if it does, it would represent a breakthrough for  3-D imaging in complex media."

Wu directs the project, which received its first annual  allotment of $199,000 in August. Assisting him are Eli Silver,  director of the Institute of Tectonics; Thorne Lay, chairman of the  Earth Sciences Department; and postgraduate researchers Xiao-Bi  Xie, Lian-Jie Huang, and Ling Zhang.

The UCSC effort is part of a three-pronged research program  coordinated by the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Other lead  institutions are the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the  Colorado School of Mines. Several petroleum and computing  companies have participated in the UCSC project and will contribute  resources and expertise: ARCO, Conoco, Cray Research, nCUBE,  Schlumberger, Shell, Sun Microsystems, and UNOCAL. According to  Silver, no previous project at the Institute of Tectonics has featured  such extensive ties with industry.

ACTI arose because oil reserves in the U.S. are becoming more  difficult to detect, especially in heavily drilled offshore regions  like the Gulf of Mexico. Analysts believe that enough oil and gas still  exists to keep the nation's refineries chugging through the next  century, but only if geologists can devise more cost-effective ways  of finding the remaining deposits.

Industry geologists have relied on seismic waves for decades  to plumb for offshore oil. They use air guns and other controlled  sources to hammer the seafloor, then detect the sounds bouncing off  various layers in the earth with an array of sensitive receivers.  Pockets of petroleum alter the paths of the sound waves in a  characteristic way. Hundreds of sources, many thousands of  receivers, and many hours of processing on a supercomputer can help  researchers pinpoint those pockets. That saves the costs of drilling  a dry exploratory well. However, the task becomes far more  challenging when a huge dome of salt--common under the Gulf of  Mexico--warps the sound waves and masks the oil beneath.

"For oil companies, 3-D imaging is their bread and butter, but  it's a very difficult job," says Silver. "You can imagine thumping on  the roof of a tall building, listening to the sound waves that return,  and trying to make an image of what's inside. The echoes from the  floors, walls, and all of the large objects would create a bloody  mess."

Wu and his team think their technique will greatly accelerate  the 3-D data analysis that can eat up so much computer time. In  essence, the technique compresses subterranean structures into a  series of 2-D sheets, rather than analyzing the whole 3-D medium,  which is far more complex. The method also neglects the multiple  echoes among various layers that can make the imaging process  prohibitively time-consuming.

For the first two years of the project, the seismologists will  create fast new computer codes and refine their theory of how  seismic waves travel through salt domes and other formations. The  main focus, says Wu, will be to ensure that the simplifications do  not distort the images and make them unreliable. In the project's  final phase, they will test the method with real data from the field.

Government funding makes this sort of work possible, Wu  observes, because industries hesitate to devote money to long-term  research that carries a degree of risk.

The researchers believe the speedy technique will prove handy  for any study of the earth's upper layers, from probing fault zones to  tracking plumes of pollutants in contaminated soils--or even for  seismic monitoring of nuclear test-ban treaties. "What Ru-Shan is  working on is more than just a slight quantitative improvement,"  Silver says. "Everyone in the field recognizes this as an extremely  useful thing to do."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/11-95/112295-UCSC_scientists_imp.html "Permalink to 112295-UCSC_scientists_imp")
