---
layout: post
title: Friends Of Long Marine Lab Welcomes New Officers And Board  Members
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Three new officers have assumed the helm of the  board of directors of the Friends of Long Marine Lab, a community  group that supports public education, student research, marine- mammal rescue, and other activities at the Joseph M. Long Marine  Laboratory. In addition, two other citizens have joined the board as  new members.

The new president, as of June 7, is Harriet Deck, owner of  Schooner Realty of Santa Cruz, which specializes in historic  properties. Deck replaces former board president John Lisher, owner  of Artisan's, a retail crafts store in Santa Cruz.

The new vice president is Jack Bassett, retired chief of police  for the city of Santa Cruz. Margot Koning-Wells, a broker at Dean  Witter Reynolds, Inc., of Santa Cruz, will serve as treasurer.

New board members are Greg Dougherty, vice president for  human resources at the Santa Cruz Operation, and Valerie Walters, a  certified public accountant at Berger-Lewis Accountancy Corp. of  Santa Cruz. There are now twenty people on the board of directors.

The board oversees fund-raising for the public-education  program at Long Marine Lab, a coastal marine-research station  operated by UC Santa Cruz. The Friends of Long Marine Lab raises  funds through annual events such as the "Whale of an Auction," a  gourmet dinner, an open house, and a popular fall lecture series. The  group also coordinates donations from agencies and individuals.  These efforts mainly support the lab's "Window to Discovery"  education program for schoolchildren and a planned $4.4 million  Visitor Education Center. More than 40,000 people visit the lab each  year.

For further information about the Friends of Long Marine Lab,  interested residents may call Lisa M. Rose, the group's executive  director, at (408) 459-3694.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/94-95/06-95/062395-Friends_of_Long_Mar.html "Permalink to 062395-Friends_of_Long_Mar")
