---
layout: post
title: Journalist Laurie Garrett To Give Public Lecture At UC Santa Cruz On Her Acclaimed Book, The Coming Plague
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Plague and pestilence sound like dirty words out  of history books, harking to times of poor societal hygiene and  backward medical practices. Today's hospitals and miracle pills  seem to offer quick cures, making it easy to forget that bacteria,  viruses, and other microbes still live among us. Such complacency is  dangerous, says science journalist and UC Santa Cruz alumna Laurie  Garrett. Indeed, Garrett argues, we face grave danger from a whole  new host of infectious diseases--and the modern medical  establishment is ill-prepared to deal with them.

That's the central tenet of The Coming Plague, Garrett's  comprehensive and critically heralded 1994 book. A local audience  will have the chance to hear Garrett's forceful views on the subject  when she gives a public lecture at UCSC on Friday, April 12. The  lecture, titled "The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a  World Out of Balance" (echoing the full title of her book), will begin  at 7:30 p.m. in Classroom Unit 2 on the UCSC campus. Admission is  free. Parking will be available at the Bay Tree Bookstore; signs will  direct visitors into nearby parking lots and to the lecture hall.

Garrett's talk will cap her two-week visit to her alma mater  as a Regents' Lecturer, a position reserved for distinguished visitors  and guest instructors. From April 1 through April 12, Garrett will  speak in classes offered by the Biology Department, the Science  Communication Program, and the Writing Program, and she will meet  with educators in UCSC's AIDS/HIV Prevention Program. All four of  those units are sponsoring Garrett's visit, as is Merrill College, from  which Garrett earned her B.A. in biology in 1975.

A medical writer for Newsday, Garrett drew upon more than a  decade of worldwide reporting to write The Coming Plague. The  book's 750 pages chronicle a legion of infectious diseases, from the  pedestrian that many assume we have conquered to the exotic that  threaten to explode from local scourges into global outbreaks.  Smallpox rests in peace as one disease that medicine has eradicated,  but others still flare up or have made unwelcome returns:  tuberculosis, malaria, even measles and chicken pox. Innumerable  viruses, from AIDS to gruesome hemorrhagic fevers, shift and  mutate to evade our attempted cures.

International travel has opened the door to the rapid spread of  diseases that, in past eras, might have burned out quickly. So, too,  does medicine aid and abet the problem, Garrett says; overuse of  antibiotics, for instance, encourages disease-resistant strains of  bacteria to thrive. She points an angry finger at the policies of  humans themselves--"ill-planned development schemes, misguided  medicine, errant public health, and shortsighted political  action/inaction"--that have only helped microbes to strengthen their  footholds. But those footholds, she notes, never were weak.

"Humanity's ancient enemies are, after all, microbes," Garrett  writes. "They didn't go away just because science invented drugs,  antibiotics, and vaccines. They didn't disappear from the planet when  Americans and Europeans cleaned up their towns and cities in the  postindustrial era. And they certainly won't become extinct simply  because human beings choose to ignore their existence."

Among the solutions Garrett proposes in The Coming Plague are  an international effort to monitor the outbreak and incidence of  communicable disease; data banks for identifying viruses; the  training of additional scientists for fieldwork at the site of an  outbreak; mobile infectious-disease hospitals that can be airlifted  to the scene of an epidemic at a moment's notice; an international  campaign to provide sterile syringes; and a commitment to provide  better general education to all segments of the world's population.

Garrett studied immunology in graduate school at UC Berkeley  before embarking upon her career in journalism. She worked for  eight years as a science correspondent for National Public Radio,  then joined the staff of Newsday in 1988. She is president of the  National Association of Science Writers and has won many awards  for her reporting on AIDS, breast cancer, and other issues in public  health. In February she received the 1995 Alumni Achievement  Award from UCSC's Alumni Association, the highest honor bestowed  upon UCSC graduates.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/031996-Journalist_to_lectu.html "Permalink to 031996-Journalist_to_lectu")
