---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Tip Sheet February 1996
author: Robert Irion
---

**Marine Biology:** Early ATOC transmissions show no obvious harm to marine animals

During the first five transmission cycles from the California  sound source in the Acoustic Thermometry of Ocean Climate (ATOC)  project, biologists observed no dramatic changes in the behavior of  marine mammals that would have required them to stop the  broadcasts. Oceanographers hope to use ATOC to measure the  hypothesized influence of global warming upon the sea. However, the  project came under fire from some quarters for the effects that its  low-frequency, 195-decibel sounds might have on animals-- especially deep-diving whales and elephant seals.

As of mid-January, ATOC scientists had spotted large numbers  of whales, dolphins, and other animals near the sound source during  aerial and boat-based surveys, both when the source was on and  when it was silent. Although the scientists detected no apparent  changes in behavior, any conclusions must await the collection of  more data plus detailed analysis.

"Even though we got a late start, the research program is going  extremely well," says UCSC biologist Dan Costa, who leads ATOC's  Marine Mammal Research Program for California. "The exciting thing  is that we have seen lots of animals in the study area even during  the winter months, when we weren't sure what to expect."

This spring, the team will transport several elephant seals  near the sound source and monitor their returns to shore at Ano  Nuevo, on the central California coast. Time-depth recorders  attached to the elephant seals will show whether the deep-diving  animals steer away from the sounds or change the depth or duration  of their dives during their trips home. The Marine Mammal Research  Program is scheduled to run at least through September 1996.

Contact: Dan Costa--(408) 459-2786 or costa@biology.ucsc.edu

**Biodiversity:** Frog embryos harmed by combined acidic water and ultraviolet light

Acidic water and ultraviolet light damage the embryos of frogs  far more seriously when acting in tandem rather than as separate  factors, according to a laboratory study at UCSC. Researchers  exposed the eggs of a common species of frog to various levels of  acidity and UV-B radiation, the most harmful form of ultraviolet  light. By themselves, even the most acidic water or the most severe  UV-B radiation did not kill many embryos. But when the team  combined the two environmental assaults, as many as half of the  eggs failed to hatch.

Ecologists should look for similar interactions in nature as  they try to explain why many populations of amphibians around the  world are dying out, the study's authors say. Stresses such as  habitat loss, a thinning ozone layer, acid rain, pesticides, disease,  and global climate change may combine to wreak more havoc on  frogs, toads, and salamanders than any one factor could by itself.  Indeed, some scientists now suspect that for any given group of  amphibians in trouble, two or more such factors may interact  synergistically--that is, the combined effects of the stresses are  far greater than the sum of their individual effects.

"People have been looking for a smoking gun to explain the  amphibian die-offs, and there isn't just one smoking gun," says  Michael Soule, coauthor of the study and professor emeritus of  environmental studies at UCSC. "There's quite an armamentarium out  there. We're just beginning to look at the interactions among these  possible causes." The UCSC team published its work in the October  1995 issue of Conservation Biology.

Contact: Michael Soule--(408) 459-4837 or soule@cats.ucsc.edu

**Oceanography:** Iron fertilization experiment: Iron's chemical dances in the sea

The sea turned green with a teeming bloom of tiny marine  plants when scientists fortified the water with a half-ton of iron.  The June 1995 experiment, called IronEx-II, vividly confirmed that  marine plants are stunted by the iron-poor waters of the equatorial  Pacific. Researchers on the cruise were interested not in controlling  earth's climate by soaking up carbon dioxide with plant growth, but  rather in studying the complex interactions between sea life and the  chemistry of the ocean.

For instance, iron's chemical associations in the sea had been  somewhat of a mystery. Before the cruise, UCSC postdoctoral  researcher Eden Rue found that almost all dissolved iron in the ocean  acts like a celebrity leaving a limo: It attracts hordes of devoted  molecular fans, in the guise of strongly binding organic molecules.  Biologists had assumed that the tiny plants called phytoplankton  could only consume inorganic iron, so Rue's discovery raised  questions about what form of iron the plants actually use.

Working in an ultraclean lab lashed to the rolling ship, Rue  measured the different types of iron forms by adhering bound iron  onto a drop of mercury--an electrochemical technique she devised.  The 100-fold increase in iron during the cruise not only turned the  water green with plants, but as Rue found, quadrupled the amount of  iron-binding molecules in less than a day.

Phytoplankton apparently can thrive even if nearly all the iron  is bound. In fact, Rue suspects that plants somehow produce binding  molecules to capture the dissolved iron, which may otherwise clump  into particles and settle to the seafloor. Rue compares the dose of  iron to a smorgasbord for phytoplankton. Producing the binding  molecules, she says, "may be a way for them to stack food on their  plates." She presented her work in February at an ocean sciences  meeting in San Diego.

Contact: Eden Rue--(408) 459-2585 or elrue@cats.ucsc.edu

**Environmental toxicology:** Metals in San Francisco Bay may repeatedly contaminate the water

Preliminary measurements of trace metals in the waters and  sediments of San Francisco Bay suggest that cleaning the most  polluted parts of the bay could be a Sisyphean task. A chronic supply  of metals in contaminated sediments may rise into the water for  decades, confounding the attempts of regulators to purge toxic  metals from the wastes of industry and civilization.

Scientists face more work to confirm that bleak scenario. But  early studies at two sites in San Francisco Bay hint that metals re-emerging from sediments contaminate the water at least as much  as--if not more than--all of the runoff and discharges from streets,  sewers, and factories combined.

Postdoctoral researcher Ignacio Rivera-Duarte of UCSC used  painstaking ultraclean methods to determine the concentrations of  several metals in the water, as well as in "porewaters" that squeeze  among the grains of sediments. This led to a picture of the relative  rates at which metals flow into the bay's waters, then into the  sediments via tiny plant cells that sink to the bottom, then back into  the water when the plants decay. That "remobilization" of trace  metals from sediments turned out to be the biggest source of most  of the metals in the water.

At heavily polluted sites in the southern San Francisco Bay,  metals buried in the sediments years ago may continue to infiltrate  the water for the foreseeable future, like sap that still oozes from  telephone poles. As a result, that part of the bay may have prolonged  problems with trace metals even if regulations demand that sewage,  industrial wastewater, and other effluents be virtually free of  potentially toxic substances. "We're not saying that contaminants in  wastewater are no longer an issue," says team leader Russell Flegal,  a geochemist. "New inputs from wastewater discharges and surface  runoff would only add to the problem." Rivera-Duarte discussed the  study in February at an ocean sciences meeting in San Diego.

Contact: Russell Flegal--(408) 459-2093 or flegal@rupture.ucsc.edu

**Geology:** Blobs of hot lava, bubbling up toward the seafloor? Probably not

It's a common image in geology textbooks: Molten magma wells  up from the planet's bowels to the seafloor at midocean ridges,  giving birth to new slabs of the earth's crust. The magma, a fiery  orange or red, ascends in teardrop-shaped blobs through what look  like inverted funnels or gigantic pipes. There's a problem with that  image, say scientists at UCSC. It's probably wrong.

Instead of a pipe, the plumbing under a midocean ridge may act  like a sponge, and a very bad sponge at that. A typical chunk of the  earth's mantle in one of these zones, the scientists believe, holds  just 1 or 2 parts magma per 1,000 parts unmelted rock--a far  smaller ratio than predicted by the reigning model of seafloor  spreading.

What's more, as the magma oozes upward through tiny  channels, it appears to stay in chemical contact with the mantle  rocks around it. Other researchers have assumed that once magma  forms deep under the ocean floor, it rises quickly and no longer  reacts with the surrounding mantle.

"Midocean ridges are the biggest magmatic systems on the  planet," says Quentin Williams, a UCSC mineral physicist. "The  previous picture of how these systems work may not be accurate.  The chemistry of what comes out at the top seems to tell us that the  magma percolates upward instead of flowing through conduits, and  that it continuously bathes the mantle in a very small amount of  melt." Williams and two colleagues, led by graduate student Craig  Lundstrom, published their results in the December 22 Science.

Contact: Quentin Williams--(408) 459-3132 or  quentw@rupture.ucsc.edu

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/02-96/022196-Feb_96-scienc.html "Permalink to 022196-Feb_96-scienc")
