---
layout: post
title: "May 6 Opening Presents Archive Documenting One Family's Experiences From WWII"
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A reception is planned to celebrate the opening of  a special archive recently acquired by the University Library at the  University of California, Santa Cruz. The archive documents the  family history of a local woman who narrowly escaped Nazi  persecution during World War II.

A short program is planned to introduce the Neufeld Family  Archive, presented last year to UCSC by Anne Neufeld Levin, a Santa  Cruz resident. The opening takes place on Monday, May 6, at 3 p.m. in  Special Collections in McHenry Library and is free and open to the  public. A reception follows.

At the age of three, Levin fled from Austria with her parents,  Henry and Hedy Neufeld, just as Hitler's troops invaded  Czechoslovakia. Last year, on the 50th anniversary of the end of  World War II, she donated her extensive family archive to the  university. Housed at Special Collections in McHenry Library, the  archive includes documents, photos, memorabilia, and letters that  were carefully preserved first by her parents and then by Levin.

Among the items on display will be the letter Levin's father  wrote to the American couple who took in her brother when he was  sent ahead of the rest of the family. "My father wrote the letter  thinking he would never see my brother again," Levin said. Also  included are the identity papers, passports, and other  correspondence that Levin's family carried following the Nazi  occupation of Austria, many marked with swastikas or a large 'J',  which identified the carrier as Jewish.

Also in the archive are family mementos such as the handmade  lacework of Hedy Neufeld.

Anne Levin is a longtime supporter of UCSC. She is a trustee  and past president of the UCSC Foundation. At the same time that  she donated her family archive, Levin presented the university with  a $250,000 gift to establish the Neufeld-Levin Holocaust Chair. The  interdisciplinary endowed chair will support teaching, research, and  public service related to the study of the Holocaust. Levin also  provided funding to establish the Neufeld-Levin Holocaust Lecture  Series at UCSC's Stevenson College. Each year, the series presents a  prominent scholar in the field of Holocaust studies.

A selection of materials from the archive will be on exhibit  from May 6 through June 14 in Special Collections, which is open  Monday through Friday and Saturday, May 18, from 10 a.m. to noon  and 1 to 4 p.m. Guests at the May 6 opening may park free after 2:30  p.m. in the Performing Arts parking lot (lot # 126). For more  information, call (408) 459-2547.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/04-96/042996-May_6-opening_prese.html "Permalink to 042996-May_6-opening_prese")
