---
layout: post
title: Of Note 
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Freshly baked pumpkin, apple, southern pecan, and apple-cranberry pies can be purchased from the College Eight/Oakes bakery.** Pie sampling will take place Tuesday and Wednesday, November 19 and 20, in the lobbies of Applied Sciences, Social Sciences 2, Earth and Marine Sciences, and Sinsheimer Labs and at the Food Services Central Office in the Housing Services Building. Orders will be taken until 4 p.m. November 22, and pies can be picked up at the tasting locations between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on November 27. The cost is $8.50 for apple, pumpkin, and apple cranberry; $9.50 for pecan. For more information, call ext. 4529\.   

**The Staff Advisory Board is sponsoring a bag lunch with Tom Vani,** vice chancellor for Business and Administrative Services, on Wednesday, November 20, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room. Staff are invited to bring their lunches and their questions; beverages will be provided.  

**Building coordinator training will take place Wednesday, November 20,** as part of the ongoing effort to prepare the campus for emergencies. Two sessions will be offered: from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. Both sessions will take place at the campus Fire Station. For more information, or to R.S.V.P., contact Susan Willats at ext. 3759 or send e-mail to willats@cats.   

**Do you rely on UCSC elevators to get to class, work, or your room?** The campus is developing a procedure to notify those who rely upon elevators about elevators that are out of service. If, due to disability-related reasons, you would like to be notified of elevator breakdowns, contact Susan Willats, ADA compliance officer for facilities, transportation, and computing access, at ext. 3759 or via e-mail at willats@cats.   

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** continues on November 18 with a talk by David Kinsella of the Political Science Department at the University of Missouri, Columbia, on the topic "We Arm the World: Weapons Trade and Developing Countries"; and on November 25 with a presentation by Richard Harris of the Global Studies Program at Cal State Monterey Bay on the topic "The Effects of Globalization in Latin America." The colloquium is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call ext. 2833.   

**"Jesus and the Poor: Religion and the Dispossessed" is the title of a talk by Gildas Hamel** on Tuesday, November 19, at noon in the Stevenson Conference Room. The talk is sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. Hamel, a lecturer in French, has studied the historical and sociological background of the New Testament and is the author of _Poverty and Charity in Roman Palestine_ (UC Press, 1990).  

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by Earl Jackson, associate professor of literature, on the topic "Slipped Dicks: Detecting the Catastrophic Fetish in _Kiss Me Deadly_ and _Bad Lieutenant _on November 20 in the Oakes Mural Room. The session begins at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call ext. 4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-11-18/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 11-18-96")
