---
layout: post
title: "Ocean Science And Engineering: Two Cultures Meet In The Ocean"
author: Robert Irion
---

**For release in conjunction with the session on Ocean Science and  Engineering at the 1996 meeting of the American Association for the  Advancement of Science. The session runs from 2:30 to 5:30 p.m. EST  on Friday, February 9, in room 321 of the Baltimore Convention  Center.**

BALTIMORE, MD--If the manned space program marked the first great  marriage of scientists and engineers, and if the robotic exploration  of the solar system provided an extended honeymoon, one might  consider our first ventures into the harsh depths of the ocean as the  challenging, temperamental offspring of this union. But as engineers  devise clever new solutions for coping with the dark and crushing  sea, and as scientists learn more about earth's last great frontier, it  has become clear that the child has matured--and he has an  impressive range of toys.

Scientists and engineers will describe some of the fruits of  their collaborative marine labors during "Ocean Science and  Engineering: Two Cultures Meet in the Ocean," a session at the annual  meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of  Science. Chaired by Chancellor Karl S. Pister of the University of  California, Santa Cruz, and Dr. Peter G. Brewer, director of the  Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI), the session  features talks by five researchers on the melding of two cultures  that, at first blush, seem to mix like oil and water.

"Science is discovery, and engineering is creation," says  Pister, who is finishing his term as chairman of the AAAS Section  on Engineering. "In the ocean, the two must go hand in hand for  research to succeed. I have been impressed by the innovative  thinking and entrepreneurial spirit of engineers helping to explore  the deep ocean. They are overcoming tremendous challenges to  create the equivalent of space vehicles."

Pister notes that a successful ocean-exploration project  involves not only scientific inquiry and instrument design and  fabrication, but also operational wizardry in the face of brutal  working conditions. Good examples, he says, are the remotely  operated vehicles (ROVs) that study the fine details of creatures in  the midocean or the geology of the seafloor, all while tethered to  tossed and windblown ships miles above. "The pilot of the ROV and  the captain of the ship have to work almost like a ballet team to  keep the instrument doing its job," Pister says.

Marine geologist Debra Stakes of MBARI, one of the speakers in  the session, also recognizes this cultural "trilogy." "Scientists  identify what they think they want--they say, 'I want this,'" says  Stakes. "Engineers identify what is technically feasible--they say,  'You can have this.' But the operations teams are the ones who  determine what we can do--they tell us, 'This is what you get.'"

To illustrate these points, Stakes will discuss an underwater  robotic vehicle called MAPS, a joint project of MBARI, the NASA  Ames Research Center, the Naval Postgraduate School of Monterey,  and Stanford University. MAPS is designed to operate as deep as  6,000 meters, without a tether. Rather, it transmits data  acoustically through the water to a ship at the surface, which then  relays it via the Internet to the user at MBARI. A test mission at  California's Mono Lake in August verified the concepts behind MAPS;  its target mission in the ocean is to explore the early stages of an  eruption at a midocean ridge.

Other speakers will include the following:

* Director Peter Brewer and engineering manager Daniel Davis  of MBARI, on the interactions between scientists and engineers at  their young but strikingly successful institution.
* Oceanographer James Morison of the University of  Washington, on the Autonomous Conductivity Temperature Vehicle-- a five-foot, twenty-pound untethered probe that explores the  salinity and temperature of the ocean thousands of feet beneath  thick polar ice caps.
* Patrick Mantey, chairman of the Computer Engineering  Department at UC Santa Cruz, on the REINAS project--a Real-Time  Environmental Information Network and Analysis System for  gathering and visualizing oceanographic and meteorological data in  the Monterey Bay region.

Mantey's team of computer scientists and engineers on REINAS  have worked for nearly four years with scientists at MBARI and the  Naval Postgraduate School to develop their system. "This project is  helping to change the way that meteorology and oceanography work,"  Mantey says. "There is a culture in much of science, including  environmental science, of gathering one's own data and then keeping  it until it gets published. But for a real-time project like this to  work, we need sharing of data as it is gathered. That's a culture  shift, but the participants end up gaining more than they give by  sharing with each other."

Other traditional differences in the cultures, Pister says,  include the time frames of work and the sizes of teams. Scientists  may need data now to publish a scientific paper, but engineers need  time--often, lots of it--to design and build an instrument that  works. And the scientific idea of one researcher or a few can  translate into a huge team of engineers, each specializing in one cog  of the whole machine.

"Some scientists can still work alone, but the days of single  engineers are long past," Pister says. "In ocean science in particular,  the instrumentation needed transcends the abilities of the individual  or the small group."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/02-96/020996-Chancellor_speaks_o.html "Permalink to 020996-Chancellor_speaks_o")
