---
layout: post
title: Carter Wilson Honored By Anthropologists For His Book About Aids In Mexico
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Carter Wilson, a professor of community studies  at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has won the 1996 Ruth  Benedict Prize for his book Hidden in the Blood: A Personal  Investigation of AIDS in the Yucatan (New York: Columbia University  Press, 1995).

The prize recognizes the best monograph on a gay or lesbian  theme and is given annually by the Society of Gay and Lesbian  Anthropologists at its meeting during the convention of the  American Anthropological Association, which is being held this year  in San Francisco November 20-24. Wilson shares this year's award  with William Leap, author of Gay Men's English.

Hidden in the Blood explores the daily lives of staff and  patients at a medical clinic that treats HIV-positive people in  southeastern Mexico. Readers come to know patients from a wide  range of backgrounds--middle-aged fathers, married couples,  transvestites, truck drivers, folklore dancers, and a young woman  infected by a blood transfusion during plastic surgery.

The book also tells the stories of still-closeted homosexual  men worried about their survival and privacy, a conservative  hematologist who mounted the first AIDS research effort in the  Yucatan peninsula, and the young men and women the crisis has  moved to become activists.

Wilson has taught at UCSC since 1972. His other books include  the novels Crazy February, Treasures on Earth, A Green Tree and a  Dry Tree: A Novel of Chiapas, and a collection of ethnographic  stories for children, On Firm Ice. Wilson worked as a writer on two  Oscar-winning films, The Times of Harvey Milk and Common Threads.

Ruth Benedict (1887-1948) was a professor of anthropology at  Columbia University, one of a famous triumvirate that also included  anthropologists Ruth Bunzel and Margaret Mead.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/11-96/112096-Carter_Wilson_honor.html "Permalink to 112096-Carter_Wilson_honor")
