---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Professor Receives $300,000 Grant From The Environmental Protection Agency For Open-Space Research
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Daniel Press, an assistant professor of environmental  studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has received a grant for  $304,782 from the federal Environmental Protection Agency to study the  role local governments play in the preservation of open space in California.

The results of the five-year study, "Community and Conservation in  California," will be particularly important as the federal and state  governments abandon their roles as preservers of undeveloped land. "The  federal government is spending very little money on conservation, and the  state of California doesn't even have an acquisitions department for  parkland anymore," says Press. "If land is going to be conserved at all,  there's going to be a big role for local governments."

Historically, however, local land-preservation efforts vary widely.  Some counties raise local taxes to buy land, or they create special districts  that levy fees on residents to establish parks--yet others do nothing. The  variation can't be explained by obvious factors, such as household income,  county revenues, political affiliation, or urban density, says Press, noting  that even during the height of the Depression in 1934, residents east of San  Francisco voted overwhelmingly to tax themselves to establish the East Bay  Regional Park District.

Press will rely heavily on interviews with planners, developers, open- space advocates, landowners, and residents to explore less tangible factors,  such as how citizens feel about the place they live and what social and civic  networks exist.

The five-year EPA grant guarantees that Press will be able to finish  his research, which he began about 18 months ago, and it gives him the  opportunity to explore an intriguing early finding: When Press charts how  each county voted on the 42 statewide ballot initiatives regarding the  environment that appeared between 1924 and 1994, what emerges are  remarkably persistent patterns of support or rejection. It's almost like  counties have distinct personalities, with some consistently approving  environmental protection measures, and others consistently rejecting them.

"Some counties have taken very active roles in preserving open space,  and part of what I'm doing is mapping that activity over time," says Press,  who will do in-depth work in several counties as part of his research.  "Ultimately, this project will tell the story of land-conservation efforts in  California in the 20th century."

Press joined the UCSC faculty in 1992; he specializes in environmental  policy and planning issues.

The EPA is one of the nation's largest regulatory agencies, with  responsibility for several major environmental statutes, including the Clean  Air Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Superfund program that cleans up  abandoned hazardous-waste sites. This grant was made as part of the EPA's  Early Career Research Award program, which "embodies the high priority  placed by EPA on maintaining the leadership position of the United States in  environmental science by producing outstanding researchers and nurturing  their continued development."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/12-96/121096-UCSC_professor_rece.html "Permalink to 121096-UCSC_professor_rece")
