---
layout: post
title: Meeting The Challenges Of Culturally Diverse Classrooms Is Subject Of UCSC Forum
author: Francine Tyler
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Differences among students in communication  styles, preparation levels, and financial resources are just a few of  the challenges that educators must contend with when teaching in  today's university.

Seeking ways to understand these differences is the impetus  behind the second annual Winter Convocation on Teaching at the  University of California, Santa Cruz. The convocation, "Meeting the  Challenges of the Culturally Diverse Classroom," will take place  Monday, February 26, from 7 to 9 p.m. in Oakes 105 on the UCSC  campus.

At the convocation, four faculty members drawn from UCSC's  four academic divisions--the arts, humanities, natural sciences, and  social sciences--will discuss these and other challenges and  propose ways to meet them. The panel is made up of Carolyn Dean,  assistant professor of art history; Timothy Fitzmaurice, lecturer in  UCSC's Writing Program; Barbara Rogoff, professor of psychology and  education; and Frank Talamantes, professor of biology. Marta  Morello-Frosch, professor emerita of Spanish literature and faculty  mentor for the humanities, will act as moderator.

Free and open to the public, the event will be followed by a  reception at the Oakes College Provost's House. It is sponsored by  UCSC's Committee on Teaching in collaboration with the Office of  the Associate Vice Chancellor for Undergraduate Education and the  Teaching Support Office.

For more information, call the Teaching Support Office at  (408) 459-5091.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/02-96/021496-UCSC_Win_Convocat.html "Permalink to 021496-UCSC_Win_Convocat")
