---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**See's candy bars** will be for sale in campus offices again this fall to raise money for the Women at Work Retreat. Representatives are needed to manage sales in the various offices. This fund-raiser begins October 15 and replaces the usual fall crafts fair.   

UCSC's **Ph.D. program in earth sciences** ranked 22nd in the country in the latest survey of graduate school programs in the sciences by _U.S. News and World Report_. Five other UC campuses placed in the top 25 in the "geology" category: Berkeley (4th), UCLA (9th), San Diego (16th), Santa Barbara (21st), and Davis (25th).  

**Mickey Wender,** head coach of the men's and women's swimming teams, has been selected as assistant coach for the U.S. National Team that will compete in the 1997 Maccabiah Games in Tel Aviv, Israel. The Maccabiah Games are held every four years in Tel Aviv, one year after the Olympics. All competitors must be of Jewish heritage.  

**Faculty and doctoral students from all disciplines are invited to apply** for a two-day teaching seminar that will focus on current challenges to U.S. and international security stemming from the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. The seminar, sponsored by the UC Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation at UC San Diego, will take place November 21-23 at UC Davis. Lodging and meals will be provided, and some travel expenses will be reimbursed. About 30 applicants will be selected. The deadline to apply is Monday, October 21, 1996. For more information, contact Bettina Halvorsen.   

**The 1996 Graduate and Professional School Fair** sponsored by the Career Center will take place Monday, October 14, from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the West Field House. Eighty schools from around the U.S. will be there to discuss their programs and hand out applications. There will also be workshops on applying to graduate, business, law, and medical schools.  

**Funding to support policy-relevant research on California's Latino population is available** from the University of California Latina/o Grants Committee. UC faculty in all disciplines who are interested in researching topics of public interest relevant to California's Latino population (e.g., effective strategies for Latino student progress, employment, families and youth at risk, immigration, and political and community participation) are encouraged to apply. Those interested should submit a letter of intent summarizing their research interests, methods, and the relevance of the research to policy prior to preparing a formal proposal. Following a review of letters of intent, investigators will be invited to submit proposals. The deadline for proposals is December 1. For more information, contact the Latina/Latino Policy Research Program, California Policy Seminar, 2020 Milvia Street #412, Berkeley, CA 94704.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-10-07/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note")
