---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** continues with a talk on October 21 by Susanne Jonas, lecturer in Latin American and Latino studies, on "Transnational Realities and Anti-Immigrant State Policies in the Americas" from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. On October 28, Saskia Sassen of Columbia University will speak on "Immigration Policy Today: From National Crisis to Multilateral Management" from 5 to 7 p.m. in Room 75, Social Sciences 2. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call ext. 2833.   

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by Barbara Epstein, professor of history of consciousness, on the topic "The Sokol Affair and Its Implications for Left Politics" on October 23 in the Oakes Mural Room. The session begins at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15, followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call ext. 4899.  

**The UCSC Running Club is back,** running four to five miles on the trails on campus and in the Pogonip. The group meets on Mondays from noon to 1 p.m. and Thursdays from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. at the sand volleyball courts at the East Field House. Depending on the number interested, groups with varying paces will form. For more information, contact Kathy Ferraro, the club adviser, at ext. 2807 or via e-mail at kferraro@cats.   

**An introductory Diversity Dialogue Group workshop** will be held on October 24 from 11:45 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. in the Cowell College Conference Room. Dialogue groups bring together five to seven individuals several times a month to talk about their differences with the support of a group leader. For more information, contact Gwendolyn Morgan at ext. 5087 or via e-mail at gwenny@cats.  

**Forecast Your Fortune,** an interactive program that projects current tax savings and future account growth for employee contributions to the tax-deferred 403(b) plan, is now available at the UC Benefits Web site. The model calculates tax savings and potential account value under various scenarios and provides information about 403(b) contribution limits and enrollment procedures.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-10-21/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 10-21-96")
