---
layout: post
title: Annual Talk On Thomas Carlyle Looks At "The Stupidest Novel In London"
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Hilary Schor is the featured speaker for the  annual Norman and Charlotte Strouse Lecture on Thomas Carlyle and  His Era at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Schor, an  associate professor of English at the University of Southern  California, will present a talk titled "The Stupidest Novel in London:  Thomas Carlyle and the Sickness of Victorian Fiction." The talk,  which is free and open to the public, takes place at 4 p.m. on  Thursday, January 18, in Room 325 in McHenry Library. A reception  follows.

Thomas Carlyle, a prolific essayist, historian, and social  critic, is considered a leading force in the Romantic movement of  nineteenth-century England. The title of Schor's talk refers to a  comment Carlyle made in an essay titled "On Biography." "He said you  could never dismiss another human being," says Schor. "You could  walk by a person and think, 'That's the stupidest man in London,' but  you could never be sure what was really inside. He believed that  biography was a good genre to open all these worlds inside us."

As fond as he was of biography, Carlyle scorned fiction. He  described the genre as the most trivial form of literature.  Ironically, Schor says, such prominent novelists as Charles Dickens  and George Eliot claimed their approach to fiction was influenced by  Carlyle's work. "In spite of Carlyle's almost humorous lack of  understanding of the goals of Victorian fiction, these novels--which  continue to be important today--actually share Carlyle's sense of  the mystery of life and worked to convey that to a variety of  readers," Schor says.

Schor is the author of Scheherezade in the Marketplace:  Elizabeth Gaskell and the Victorian Novel (Oxford University Press,  1992). She recently completed a book on Dickens and women to be  published by Cambridge University Press. Schor has been an  associate of the Dickens Project, based at UCSC, since 1984.

The Strouse lectures on Carlyle are given annually at UCSC to  complement the Norman and Charlotte Strouse Collection of Thomas  Carlyle, a rich holding of Carlyle's books, letters, manuscripts, and  other items, established in 1966 and housed in Special Collections  at the University Library. The collection continues to grow through  support from an endowment from the estate of Norman Strouse. For  more information on the talk, call (408) 459-2547.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/01-96/011196-Carlyle_talk_on_The.html "Permalink to 011196-Carlyle_talk_on_The")
