---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Announces Appointment Of Two Faculty To  Endowed Chair In Holocaust Studies
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The University of California, Santa Cruz, announced  the appointment today of two prominent scholars as co-chairs of the  Neufeld-Levin Chair in Holocaust Studies--one of just a handful of  endowed chairs in the United States devoted to the examination of  the Holocaust.

Selected to hold the chair for the next five years are Murray  Baumgarten, a professor of English and comparative literature at  UCSC, and Peter Kenez, a professor of history at UCSC. Baumgarten is  the editor of Judaism, a national journal of Jewish scholarship,  culture, religion, and history. He has done extensive research and  published works on the Holocaust and on modern Jewish writers.  Baumgarten's parents fled from Hitler's troops in 1938--Baumgarten  was born on the boat they took from Vienna to Panama. Kenez, a  Holocaust survivor and native of Hungary, is a scholar of the history  of Russia and the former Soviet Union. He is currently director of the  University of California's Education Abroad Program in Budapest,  Hungary, and is the author of a number of books, including Varieties  of Fear: Growing Up Jewish Under Nazism and Communism  (American University Press, 1995). The Neufeld-Levin Chair was established by Anne Neufeld  Levin, a longtime resident of Santa Cruz and a trustee of the UC Santa  Cruz Foundation. Levin herself narrowly escaped Nazi persecution  when, at the age of three, she fled from Austria with her parents,  Henry and Hedy Neufeld, just as Hitler's troops invaded  Czechoslovakia in 1939. In announcing the appointments, UC Santa Cruz Chancellor  M.R.C. Greenwood said, "I am pleased to name Professor Baumgarten  and Professor Kenez as co-chairs of the Neufeld-Levin Chair. They  are highly regarded by colleagues and students alike. I know a  thriving program will develop under the direction of these very  dedicated and talented scholars."

"Additionally," Greenwood noted, "we are grateful to Anne  Levin for establishing this endowed chair. Her gift makes it possible  for us to continue and expand on our research, instruction, and  documentation of one of the most tragic events of modern times." "I couldn't, under any circumstances, be more pleased with the  selection of Professors Baumgarten and Kenez as co-chairs," said  Anne Levin. "It is because of Murray Baumgarten that I considered  endowing a chair in Holocaust studies in the first place--his  invitation for me to speak in his class planted the seed. I have great  admiration for his many accomplishments and his commitment to his  field.

"I am equally delighted by the appointment of Professor Kenez,  who is himself a Holocaust survivor. It is so important that we hear  about this tragedy from those who lived through it, especially from  someone like Peter Kenez who is such an outstanding teacher."

For years, Kenez and Baumgarten have co-taught The  Holocaust: The Destruction of European Jewry--one of the campus's  most popular courses. As part of their five year plan they will  continue to teach the course in alternate years; will bring in two  visiting professors to teach undergraduate and graduate courses; will  support a one-year graduate fellowship; and plan to end their term  with a conference on teaching the Holocaust. Public lectures are  planned as is a conference next spring on "Family History and the  Holocaust."

An vital aspect of the chair is its interdisciplinary focus. "This is  a phenomenon that does not divide up by disciplines. The Holocaust  touches on every aspect of European and Nazi society," Baumgarten  noted. A important resource for chairholders will be the Neufeld  Family Archive, donated by Levin soon after she endowed the chair.  The archive includes documents, medals, stamps, artifacts, photos,  memorabilia, and letters, carefully preserved first by her parents  and then by Levin. "It is always much more moving to be able to  learn the fate of a single individual than talk about generalities.  Students are engaged by the concrete, by such real-life stories as this  archive relays," Kenez said. Baumgarten added that, "This is a very rich collection that  chronicles the family's life before and during the rise of Nazism. The  level of detail in the letters in the Neufeld archive approaches that of  some of the most important Holocaust diaries, including Anne  Frank's, and it makes for a very unusual and valuable collection." The  archive is housed in Special Collections at the University Library and  is available for public viewing by appointment. Levin has been a longtime supporter and volunteer at UCSC.  Along with establishing the annual Neufeld-Levin Holocaust Lecture  Series in 1994, she is a former president of the UC Santa Cruz  Foundation and a current board trustee. She served as co-chair of the  Development Committee for the Karl S. Pister Leadership Opportunity  Program and as a member of several other groups supporting the  university.

Along with editing Judaism, Baumgarten is the founding  director of the Dickens Project, an international group based at UCSC.  He has studied and written on Victorian culture and Dickens as well  as Jewish culture, religion, and art and the portrayal of Jews in the  works of Charles Dickens and other Victorian writers. He is editor of  an eight-volume edition (in progress) of the works of Thomas Carlyle.

Kenez has authored a number of books on Soviet history,  including Cinema and Soviet Society, 1917-1953 (Cambridge  University Press, 1992); and The Birth of the Propaganda State:  Soviet Methods of Mass Mobilization, 1917-1929 (Cambridge  University Press, 1985). Kenez and Baumgarten are founding faculty  of UCSC's Stevenson College.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/09-96/092096-Two_UCSC_professors.html "Permalink to 092096-Two_UCSC_professors")
