---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Graduate Student Studies A Novel Way For Monterey Bay To Regulate Rockfish Fisheries
author: [Amy Adams, Robert Irion]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Monterey Bay provides a happy home for rockfish.  Reddish, canary, and cowcod rockfish live in the deep reefs, while  blue, brown, and china rockfish stay closer to shore. This myriad of  species attracts fishers to the bay and gourmands to the area's  seafood restaurants. But rockfish numbers are slowly dwindling, and  the tastiest species may nearly be fished out.

The answer to shrinking rockfish numbers may lie in small  marine reserves dotting Monterey Bay and the nearby coast. Michelle  Paddack, a graduate student in marine sciences at UC Santa Cruz,  studies rockfish populations at three protected areas: Hopkins  Marine Life Refuge, Point Lobos State Reserve, and Big Creek Marine  Ecological Reserve. Paddack is discovering that these reserves,  which are closed to public fishing and diving, house adult rockfish  whose offspring may later replenish fished water.

"Marine reserves are used extensively by some countries," says  Paddack. "They may be a better management strategy than size  limits or quotas. Since most rockfish live deep and die from  pressure differences when you pull them up, you can't set a size  limit on them."

Paddack's work is one aspect of a long-term monitoring  project coordinated by Nicole Crane, subtidal research director for  the San Francisco-based Oceanic Society. Crane's goal is to establish  research sites around Monterey Bay to monitor species patterns and  diversity over time. "We hope to establish a database that is  available for researchers looking at trends in the sanctuary," says  Crane.

Reserves like the ones in Monterey Bay are currently used to  manage fisheries in Australia, New Zealand, South America, and on  the East Coast of the United States. They work best for animals that  tend to be territorial and stay in the same area, like rockfish or  lobsters, because the reserve can become a permanent home.  Animals living within the reserve grow larger and have more  offspring to seed the surrounding waters for fishers.

The entire California coast may benefit from a few well-placed reserves, Crane believes. Offspring from a reserve are  transported by currents out to sea with other rockfish larvae. After  two to three months, young fish scatter along the shore to establish  new homes, but scientists do not think they return to any specific  place. "Hopkins may be providing fish for Santa Cruz," says Crane.

So far, the California Department of Fish and Game has not set  up reserves specifically for rockfish fishery management, but the  department established four reserves in California for research and  protection purposes. Paddack hopes that by studying reserves in and  near Monterey Bay, she can encourage fisheries to establish more  protected areas. "The current reserves are often not in prime places  to preserve fish," says Paddack. Since the reserves weren't set up  for fisheries management, she notes, they may not be in the most  productive sites for the fisheries.

At each of the three marine reserves in her study, Paddack  samples at least two established sites within the reserve and two  outside. She and other divers measure the number and species of  rockfish and their sizes using a see-through Plexiglas ruler. At  Hopkins Marine Life Refuge, Paddack has found more fish inside than  outside the reserve, and the ones inside grow larger. However, she  does find more small rockfish near the edge of the preserve than  farther away. Since rockfish are territorial, the researchers  speculate that mature rockfish may force smaller ones outside the  boundaries of the reserve. "Big beefy guys may be protecting big  chunks of the reef," says Paddack.

The other two sites showed the same trend, with more fish  inside than outside the reserve, but it was less noticeable than at  Hopkins. "The reserves may be too small, or poaching may be too  intense, or they weren't a good habitat for fish to begin with," says  Paddack. "I think no one has done research on finding the best size  for the reserves."

Rockfish are not only important as adults. Their young are  eaten by a variety of larger animals such as lingcod, wolf eels,  seals, and even adult rockfish. "Those babies are chow for so much,"  says Paddack. Declining rockfish numbers could affect many other  fisheries in Monterey Bay by removing a major food source.

Because of their importance, rockfish were the first species  sampled by the researchers, but Crane plans to expand the program  next year. She is working with local agencies and scientists to  decide which other organisms the reserves might affect most  noticeably. Crane says she wants to study fish and other animals  that are sensitive to change, long lived, and logistically easy to  sample.

Crane's project is funded by the Oceanic Society, the David and  Lucile Packard Foundation, and the Monterey Bay National Marine  Sanctuary. Volunteers who wish to assist with the research may call  the Oceanic Society at 1-800-326-7491.

Paddack's work is part of the Monterey Bay Regional Studies  (MBRS) program at UCSC. Students in this program are involved in  interdisciplinary studies of the Monterey Bay Area. Under the  auspices of MBRS, Paddack is setting up a collaboration with  sociology students interested in social aspects of marine reserves.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/05-96/053196-Researcher_studies_.html "Permalink to 053196-Researcher_studies_")
