---
layout: post
title: Chuck Matthei To Discuss Creative Ways Of Securing Farmland On May 8
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA­ Chuck Matthei, a leader of national efforts to  preserve agricultural land, will give a free public talk on May 8  about creative ways to secure farmland. The talk, which will begin  at 7 p.m., will take place in Room 3 of Louden Nelson Community  Center at 301 Center Street in Santa Cruz.

Many farmers rent land without long-term security, cannot  afford to buy agricultural land, or are struggling in other ways to  preserve their farms for future generations, says Matthei. Among the  strategies Matthei will discuss are the following:
* working with land trusts to balance individual and  community needs;
* using conservation easements, long-term leases, and other  tools;
* negotiating purchases and donations;
* financing land acquisition and development;
* the role of community-supported agriculture (CSA)  members in helping to purchase and preserve farms for future  generations.

Matthei is president of Equity Trust, Inc., an innovative  nonprofit organization dedicated to land reform and community- development finance. Equity Trust provides technical assistance and  training to community land trusts and other community-development  and conservation organizations. Based in Connecticut, the group also  helps to shape public policy and conducts an active program of public  education in the area of land reform. The organization established  the Equity Trust Fund to help purchase both urban and rural land.

Also on the bill May 8 is Sam Earnshaw, a local farmer who is  active in agricultural issues. Earnshaw, who serves on the Santa  Cruz County Agricultural Advisory Policy Commission, will provide  an update on local agricultural land-preservation efforts, including  the proposed annexation by the city of Watsonville of two areas that  are currently part of Santa Cruz County and contain prime  agricultural land.

The event is being cosponsored by the Center for Agroecology  and Sustainable Food Systems at the University of California, Santa  Cruz, the Community Alliance with Family Farmers, and CSA West.  For more information, call (408) 459-2321.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/04-96/042296-Talk_on_creative_wa.html "Permalink to 042296-Talk_on_creative_wa")
