---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

Students, staff, and faculty are invited to participate in planning the **1997 Martin Luther King, Jr., Convocation.** The planning committee will meet on Friday, November 8, from 3 to 4 p.m. in the Student Center Third World Lounge. All major aspects of the event, including the choice of the keynote speaker, will be considered. For more information, contact Karen Hilker, Arts & Lectures production assistant, at ext. 2826 or via e-mail at karen_hilker@macmail.  

**Economics professor Michael Hutchison organized a conference entitled "Deregulation, Finance, and Monetary Policy Issues in Japan"** that was held on campus earlier this month. The themes of the conference, which was sponsored by the Japan-United States Friendship Commission and the University of California, were deregulation in Japan and its economic effects, especially on trade relations, and the workings of Japanese monetary policy and the reasons behind Japan's superior inflation performance. Seven papers were presented at the conference, including one by economics professor Carl Walsh and another presented jointly by economics professors Michael Dooley and Menzie Chinn.   

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** continues on November 4 with a talk by Franke Wilmer of the Political Science Department at Montana State University on the topic "The Indigenous Voice, World Politics, and Industrial Globalization"; and on November 11 James Der Derian of the Political Science Department at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst will speak on the topic "Eyeing the Other: Technical Oversight, Simulated Foresight, and Theoretical Blindspots in the Infosphere." The colloquium is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call ext. 2833.   

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by Keith Goshorn of the Center for Cultural Studies on the topic "The Current American 'Politics of Deep Suspicion' and Post-World War II Strategies of Tension: The Problem of Surplus Narratives and the Erosion of Proof" on November 6 in the Oakes Mural Room. The session begins at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call ext. 4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-11-04/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 11-4-96")
