---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: 
---

**Noontime Culture Talks** provide an opportunity for staff to share their culture and/or heritage with the campus community. The presentation can consist of a talk and/or slide show, reading family stories/history, or sharing crafts or other symbols of heritage. Sponsored by the Diversity Education Program, Culture Talks are offered monthly. For more information, contact Gwendolyn Morgan at ext. 5087 or e-mail _gwenny@cats._   

**More than 200 officers from 90 California police and sheriff's departments came to UCSC** last month for a workshop on child abduction and sexual predators. The one-day workshop was designed to ensure that law enforcement officers know what resources they may call upon and what actions they should take if a child is abducted in their area. It was sponsored by UCSC and the California Department of Justice's Sexual Habitual Offender Program.   

**UCSC's updated mailing address** is: University of California, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064-1077. The street address and expanded ZIP code should always be included.   

**Mark  Majeski**, head of intercollegiate athletic programs, spent part of this summer in Atlanta as part of the management team for Olympic Stadium. The stadium was the venue for opening and closing ceremonies and track and field events during the Olympics. As a sector coordinator, Majeski worked 15-hour shifts, helping supervise hundreds of ushers, ticket takers, and volunteers; address maintenance problems; and generally oversee the operations of the stadium before and during the events.  

**The University of California Education Abroad Program is recruiting center directors**; candidates must be tenured members of the Academic Senate, lecturers with security of employment, or emeriti faculty. Two-year appointments for July 1997 through June 1999 are available in Beijing, Cairo, Bordeaux/Toulouse, Tokyo, Madrid, London, Delhi, Moscow, and Lund, Sweden. One-year appointments will be offered in Budapest and at the Meiji Gakuin Global Security semester program in Yokohama. Applications for these directorships are due October 18. Directors are also being sought for two-year appointments extending from January 1998 to December 1999 in Melbourne, Rio de Janeiro, and San Jose, Costa Rica. Applications for these appointments are due February 21, 1997. For more information or to obtain an application packet, call the campus EAP office at ext. 2858.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-09-23/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Untitled")
