---
layout: post
title: Dedication Of Keck II Telescope In Hawaii Set For May 8
author: Robert Irion
---

PASADENA, CA--Astronomers and leading administrators from the  California Institute of Technology, the University of California, and  the University of Hawaii will dedicate the ten-meter Keck II  Telescope in a ceremony at 11 a.m. Hawaiian time (2 p.m. PDT) on  Wednesday, May 8. Keck II and its five-year-old twin, Keck I, are the  world's largest optical telescopes.

Edward Stone, director of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory  and chair of the board of directors of the California Association for  Research in Astronomy (CARA), which owns and operates the  telescopes, will lead the ceremony inside the Keck II dome on the  summit of Mauna Kea, a 13,796-foot dormant volcano on the Big  Island of Hawaii.

Following a traditional dedication chant by Hawaiian elder  Kepa Maly, the audience will hear remarks from University of Hawaii  President Kenneth Mortimer, Caltech President Thomas Everhart, UC President Richard Atkinson, NASA chief scientist France Cordova,  and Keck Foundation chairman and president Robert Day.

Clair Bergener, chairman of the UC Board of Regents, and  Gordon Moore, chairman of Caltech's Board of Trustees, will then  make a joint presentation to Howard Keck, who served as the W. M.  Keck Foundation's chairman and president for more than 30 years.  The Keck Foundation has provided more than $150 million toward  funding the telescopes.

As a finale, Stone will take the telescope for a spin,  demonstrating how the telescope and dome move. Although it weighs  nearly 300 tons, the telescope is so precisely balanced that, with  the brakes released, a person could move it by pushing with one hand.  Keck II is undergoing engineering tests and has taken a few  astronomical images; it will begin scientific observations in  October.

Like its sibling Keck I, Keck II uses a mirror composed of 36  hexagonal pieces of glass, individually polished and assembled to  form a perfectly parabolic reflecting surface with an effective  diameter of 10 meters, or nearly 33 feet. This segmented mirror is  much thinner, and thus lighter in weight, than a solid mirror could  be, which is the key to building such a large instrument.

The principal designer and project scientist for both  telescopes, astronomer Jerry Nelson of UC Santa Cruz, will attend  the ceremony and will speak at a formal dinner the following  evening. Nelson was elected to the National Academy of Sciences on  April 30 in recognition of his innovative accomplishments at the W. M. Keck Observatory.

Joseph Miller, director of the UC Observatories/Lick  Observatory, UCSC, also will speak at the dinner. "This is an  unprecedented era for optical astronomy," Miller says. "The answers  to so many questions are now within reach--literally all of the  questions astronomers have always wanted to ask, but have never  had the ability to answer, until the Keck Telescopes came along."  Some of the most striking challenges on the agenda for the next  several years, Miller says, are searching for planetary disks around  other stars, examining the earliest stages of galaxy formation, and  studying the large-scale distribution of matter in the universe.

In addition to doubling the amount of observing time available  at the observatory, Keck II will let astronomers use a wider array of  observing instruments. Scientists have designed and are building  three specialized spectrographs--instruments for recording an  object's spectrum--for use on Keck II that will make possible an  observational program with great flexibility and range.

The Near-Infrared Spectrograph, being built at UCLA, will  record spectra from faint objects at wavelengths just slightly  longer than visible to the human eye. DEIMOS, a powerful multiobject  spectrograph under construction at UCSC, will collect spectra from  up to 100 objects simultaneously. And the Echelle Spectrograph and  Imager, also being built at UCSC, will take spectra over a broad  range of wavelengths and will allow users to take photographic  images as well. These, together with the instruments of Keck I, are  arguably the finest astronomical instruments in the world.

Keck II also will have an adaptive optics facility to  compensate for slight distortions caused by atmospheric turbulence.  People see distorted starlight as twinkling, but for a telescope  making a long exposure, turbulence makes the star look slightly  blurry. The adaptive optics system will detect these distortions and  make 100 tiny adjustments per second at the surface of a special  mirror to maintain the sharpest possible image.

In the long term, Keck I and II have the potential to work  together as an interferometer--a system in which light from one  telescope combines and interferes with light from the other.  Scientists can extract extremely high-resolution images from this  interference. Because the telescopes are some 85 meters (nearly  280 feet) apart, they would have a resolution equivalent to a  telescope with a mirror 85 meters in diameter.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/05-96/050396-Keck_II_Telescope_d.html "Permalink to 050396-Keck_II_Telescope_d")
