---
layout: post
title: Of Note 
author: UCSC Currents
---

**A community tribute is planned for arts advocate and former UCSC employee Gail Rich** at 2 p.m. on Sunday, December 8, in the Performing Arts Theater. Several local artists (many of whom were friends and associates of Gail's) will perform musical and spoken word selections--pieces that Gail enjoyed in her life. A reception follows.   

**"Cheers at the Crow's Nest,"** a holiday celebration to benefit public education programs at Long Marine Lab, is set for Thursday, December 5, at the Crow's Nest Restaurant, Santa Cruz Yacht Harbor. The Crow's Nest will donate one-third of the dinner proceeds between 5:30 and 8:30 p.m. and one-third of all bar proceeds from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m. to the Friends of Long Marine Lab. Patrons will enjoy jazz music throughout the evening. [Six guest bartenders ][2]from UCSC and the Friends of Long Marine Lab will assist the Crow's Nest staff. For reservations, call the Crow's Nest at 476-4560.   

**The UCSC Fire and Police Departments are collecting new, unwrapped toys** to distribute, in conjunction with the Santa Cruz city Fire Department, to local needy children during the holiday season. Toys may be dropped off before December 20 at the campus Fire Station, Police Department, or Cowell Student Health Center. For more information or toy pickup, contact Tim Santos at ext. 3473 or via e-mail at fdcapts@cats.  

**The annual Women in Management Network (WIMN) Holiday Toy Drive is under way.** Members of the campus community are invited to provide a requested gift to a child who might otherwise have a meager holiday.** **If you would like to be matched with a child's request or make a donation for the purchase of such a gift, contact Jeanne Gray at jgray@cats or Vicki Gutzwiller at vickig@cats. Bicycles are among the most requested gifts; if you would like to donate or repair a bike or tricycle, contact Vicki Gutzwiller. Volunteers are also needed to wrap gifts at lunchtime on December 16 and 18 at 325 McHenry.  

**The UC Education Abroad Program is recruiting directors** for centers in Australia, Costa Rica, and Brazil. Candidates must be tenured members of the Academic Senate, lecturers with security of employment, or emeriti faculty. Appointments are for two years with residency on-site from January through July of each year. Applications for these positions are due February 21, 1997. For more information or to obtain an application packet, call the campus EAP office at ext. 2858.  

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** continues on November 25 with a presentation by Richard Harris of the Global Studies Program at Cal State Monterey Bay on the topic "The Effects of Globalization in Latin America"; and on December 2 with a talk by Ronnie Lipschutz, assistant professor of politics, on the topic "Does Globalization Matter?" The colloquium is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call ext. 2833.   

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by Gayle Rubin, lecturer in women's studies, titled "A Retrospective on the Feminist Sex Wars" on December 4 in the Cowell Provost House. The session will begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call ext. 4899.

[2]: /oncampus/currents/96-11-25/bartenders.htm

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-11-25/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 11-25-96")
