---
layout: post
title: Awards and Honors
author: UCSC Currents
---  

**Gwendolyn Mink,** professor of politics, received the Victoria Schuck Award from the American Political Science Association for her book _The Wages of Motherhood: Inequality in the Welfare State, 1917-1942_ (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1995). The Schuck Award recognizes the best book on women in politics published during the previous calendar year. It was presented during the association's annual meeting at the award ceremony on August 30; it carries a $500 cash prize.  

Ombudsman **Sheila K. Gottehrer** has been invited by the United Nations (Regional Bureau for Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States) to be part of a delegation to assess technical assistance requirements for support to the Russian Federation government in the area of democracy, governance and participation. She will consult and help identify priorities to establish the first university ombudsman at the Moscow Institute for Foreign Relations.   

**Judy Yung,** associate professor of American studies, has received two awards for her book _Unbound Feet_ (University of California Press, 1995): the 1996 National Book Award in History from the Association of Asian American Studies and the Robert C. Athearn Award from the Western History Association.   

**George Von der Muhll,** professor emeritus of politics, has been awarded a Fulbright Lectureship for the current academic year at Charles University in Prague (Czech Republic). He will be lecturing on the principles of democracy, democratic regimes and democratization, American politics and society, and American political philosophy under the auspices of the recently founded American Studies Program in the Institute of International Studies. Von der Muhll has been a Fulbright lecturer previously at Makerere University in Uganda and at Haile Selassie I University in Ethiopia.   

**Peter Kriz,** a doctoral student in economics, has been awarded the first annual prize for the best econometrics paper in the international economics Ph.D. program. The prize carries an award of $250. Kriz's essay investigated bilateral exchange rates among economies in the European Monetary System.  

**Joseph Bunnett,** professor emeritus of chemistry and biochemistry, chaired a panel at a workshop on programs in the U.S. and Russia to destroy stockpiles of chemical weapons. Bunnett and the members of his panel reviewed technologies that provide alternatives to incineration, such as chemical neutralization and biodegradation. The workshop took place in July at the U.S. Capitol and was sponsored by members of Congress.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-10-07/awards.htm "Permalink to Awards and Honors")
