---
layout: post
title: Photographs By UC Santa Cruz Students Exhibited At Louden  Nelson
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Photographs by seven UC Santa Cruz students will  be exhibited at the Louden Nelson Community Center from May 5  through May 30. The show is titled "Photographic Journeys, 1996,"  and features works by students in UCSC's Division of Social  Sciences. The exhibit is free and open to the public. The community  center is located at 301 Center Street in Santa Cruz and is open 8  a.m.-10 p.m. daily.

The photographs represent work completed during class  projects and field studies, and all are related to social sciences  themes, says Jon Kersey, director of the Social Sciences Media Lab  at UCSC, which is sponsoring the show.

Listed below are the names of students, their class standing  and majors, and a brief description of their work.

Kristiana Elite, senior, anthropology: photographs from her six- month project with Latino students at Santa Cruz High School, titled  "Los Estudiantes de Santa Cruz High."

Paul Myers, senior, anthropology: photographs of workers.

Rene Ortega, senior, anthropology: photographs taken on both sides of  the California-Mexico border show the diversity of Mexican and  Mexican American/Chicano people.

Susan Pratte, senior, community studies: photographs taken during  Pratte's work with the Santa Cruz Needle Exchange make up her  senior project, which is a work in progress.

Eva Rubin, junior, community studies: photographs of labor camps in  Watsonville.

Larry Tanikawa, senior, psychology: photographs of Santa Cruz Guitar  Company.

Inga Vintimilla, senior, Latin American and Latino studies:  photographs from her field study in Cuenca, Ecuador, where  Vintimilla studied community services provided by the church.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/04-96/041596-Photographs_by_UCSC.html "Permalink to 041596-Photographs_by_UCSC")
