---
layout: post
title: Lora Lee Martin To Direct The University Of California's MBEST Center At The Former Fort Ord
author: Robert Irion
---

**Technology Park Will Occupy The Heart Of A "research Crescent" Around  Monterey Bay**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Lora Lee Martin of the University of California, Santa  Cruz, has become the first full-time director of UC's Monterey Bay  Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center. The MBEST Center, led by  UCSC, is a regional economic initiative that includes development of a  technology center on UC-owned property at the former Fort Ord--at the  heart of the region's rich base of research institutions.

Martin, the federal governmental affairs officer at UCSC, most  recently directed the campus's office of Governmental Research Affairs and  Regional Economic Development, which will be absorbed into MBEST. She has  overseen many of UC's roles in the reuse of Fort Ord since 1991, and she  represents UC on the board of the Fort Ord Reuse Authority (FORA). Martin  works with regional research and teaching institutions, local elected  officials, and industry representatives to facilitate the economic growth of  the Monterey Bay region.

Martin succeeds and was appointed by founding MBEST director James  Gill, associate vice chancellor for research at UCSC. Gill will continue to be  the faculty member and vice chancellor most involved in MBEST Center  administration.

The MBEST Center has become the focus of UCSC's increasing role in  the economy of the Monterey Bay region. Its mission is to develop and  promote collaborative interaction between private business, government  research agencies, public and private educational and research institutions,  and policy makers. These interactions will increase the role of UCSC and  similar research organizations in economic development, especially in the  Monterey Bay region, but also with linkages to statewide, national, and  global marketplaces.

"I believe that the location of the UC MBEST Center at the former Fort  Ord will attract innovative and entrepreneurial companies," Martin says.  "These companies will complement the competencies of the institutions in  our region."

Of the more than 1,000 acres acquired by UC from the U.S. Army in  1994, about 440 acres are now available for development. Figures released  recently by FORA predict that the MBEST Center will create the greatest  number of jobs of any reuse activity at the former base.

Planners at UCSC and their consultants will complete land-use and  business plans for the property this fall. MBEST's first building is almost  fully leased to tenants that complement regional research organizations;  project managers plan to construct a second building next year.

As part of the MBEST project, the UC Regents recently accepted about  600 acres of unique maritime chaparral into the UC Natural Reserve System.  Called the Fort Ord Reserve, this land is adjacent to the developable MBEST  property and the new Marina Municipal Airport.

Martin holds a B.S. in zoology from UC Davis and an M.B.A. from UC  Berkeley. She came to UCSC in 1989 after experience in the environmental  remediation industry, as a staff member in Washington, D.C., and in political  and nonprofit organizations. Her role in the Fort Ord project has twice  included giving testimony before the U.S. Congress on related base- conversion issues.

As director, Martin will develop and promote the "research crescent"  around Monterey Bay by representing UC and the MBEST Center in  collaboration with regional institutions, businesses, and government to  promote their sustainable interrelationships. She also will oversee the  recruitment of businesses and agencies to MBEST's property and the forging  of relationships among them, UCSC, and other regional institutions.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/10-96/100296-Lora_Martin_named_d.html "Permalink to 100296-Lora_Martin_named_d")
