---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Convenes Workshops For Business And Industry Leaders To Share Perspectives On Economic Development At Fort Ord
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The University of California's Monterey Bay  Education, Science, and Technology (MBEST) Center is holding a pair  of work sessions for leaders of businesses and industries in the  Monterey Bay Area and Silicon Valley, with the goal of soliciting  their perspectives on how to succeed in conducting educationally  related and research-oriented business in the Monterey Bay region.

Participants at the first daylong session, held on June 17 at  the Quadrus Conference Center in Menlo Park, shared their views on  the region's attributes: those which are attractive to technology- intensive businesses, as well as those needing attention for  economic development to succeed. Quality of life and the strengths  of the region's research institutions were the most frequently cited  attributes.

The second work session, in Monterey on Monday, July 8, will  follow up on these themes. Attendees will offer specific  suggestions to the MBEST team as it implements its program and  moves forward with developing its site at the former Fort Ord. Also  on the agenda will be opportunities for agencies and industries to  collaborate as the plans progress. New UC Santa Cruz Chancellor  M.R.C. Greenwood, who begins her position on July 1, will open the  meeting.

"The interesting challenge is that we must enhance the  visibility of the Monterey Bay region's assets to potential tenants of  the MBEST Center outside of the region," said consultant James  Gollub of Information Design Associates (IDeA) and DRI/McGraw- Hill, leader of a team that is analyzing the region's competitive  advantages. "We're getting strong views about what the region must  do to prepare itself for the next generation of industries.

"The bottom line is that any region wanting to succeed in  attracting and forming industry has to understand that the region  must actively create sources of advantage for them in comparison to  other regions."

"I guarantee you that the university will use this information,"  said UCSC's James Gill, director of the MBEST Center, at the end of  the first work session. "Your input has transformed our approach to  the MBEST Center and will continue to do so."

The MBEST Center, led by UCSC, is envisioned as one of the  cornerstones for the economic rebirth of the region. The U.S. Army  has conveyed about 1,090 acres of land at Fort Ord to the University  of California for the project. Plans call for the development of an  industrial research and technology center during the next several  decades on about 485 acres. The remaining land will become part of  the UC Natural Reserve System, preserved as unique maritime  chaparral.

Discussions at the first work session were driven by groups  representing each of four market niches: environmental science,  technology, and instrumentation, especially coastal applications;  biotechnology, emphasizing agricultural and marine applications;  information science and technologies; and multimedia education and  entertainment. The UC Fort Ord Project team chose those areas for  their connections to existing regional strengths and for their growth  potential.

About two dozen leaders from private industries and others  from regional institutions and government attended the session,  which was facilitated by IDeA and DRI/McGraw-Hill. Among the  participants were representatives of Santa Cruz Biotechnology,  Kinnetic Laboratories, Plantronics, SRI International, Sun  Microsystems, Raychem, Triton Technology, ESCAtech Media,  Comerica Bank, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and  California State University, Monterey Bay.

Sponsors of the work sessions are the University of California,  the Santa Cruz County Economic Development Office, the City of  Santa Cruz Redevelopment Agency, the Monterey Bay Aquarium  Research Institute, the Naval Postgraduate School of Monterey, and  the City of Monterey.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/06-96/062496-Fort_Ord_Project_ho.html "Permalink to 062496-Fort_Ord_Project_ho")
