---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Tip Sheet May 1996
author: Erik Stokstad
---

**Astrophysics I**

A model for the birth and strange life of the first new planet  orbiting a "normal" star

Delight zipped around planet Earth last October when  astronomers discovered signs of a new planet in the cosmos,  orbiting a star much like our own Sun. But fantasies about life on  this distant body went up in flames when the details became clear:  The planet is so close to its star that temperatures on its sunny side  soar to about 2,000 degrees.

Indeed, the planet's existence seemed so marginal that it  strained credulity. Its size--about as big as Jupiter--implies that it  is mostly made of gas, yet its blast-furnace orbit surely would have  boiled off such an atmosphere. Further, astronomers had thought that  large planets develop only in colder parts of the gaseous disks that  swathe baby stars. A few suggested the evidence might point to  something else entirely--remnants of a brown dwarf, or even  vibrations of the star itself.

To paraphrase former vice presidential candidate James  Stockdale, the key questions about the planet were: What is it? How  did it get there? Now, a UCSC-led team thinks it has the answers.

In the April 18 issue of Nature, the researchers propose that  the planet, called 51 Pegasi B, is indeed a gas giant that coalesced  at a more reasonable distance from its star, perhaps 100 times  further away than it is today. Then, in a million-year gravitational  tug-of-war among the star, the planet, and gas and dust in the rest  of the disk, the planet spiraled slowly but relentlessly toward the  star. Finally, inward and outward forces on the planet's orbit  canceled each other out just before the star would have consumed  the planet.

"We have said for years that planets can migrate toward their  stars early in a solar system's history," says astrophysicist Douglas  Lin. "The new part of the theory is that this migration could stop. It  is possible that 51 Pegasi B is the last of a series of planets, all but  one of which have perished in their parent star." Contact: Douglas Lin--(408) 459-2732 or lin@ucolick.org

**Astrophysics II**

Computer models of galaxy collisions yield puzzling results about  dark-matter halos

When galaxies collide, the results can be strikingly beautiful  or deadly dull. Some pairs of galaxies fling sweeping arcs of stars  into space; others just merge into shapeless blobs. The difference, it  turns out, is a matter of some gravity.

Gravity dictates the overall shapes of galaxies during a  collision, as well as the path of each star. However, the key forces  come not from the stars themselves, but from invisible "halos" of  dark matter theorized by astronomers to surround every galaxy.  These halos can create deep gravitational pits, making it less likely  that stars will escape a collision to form graceful luminous arcs.

That delicate dance of physics allowed a UCSC team to use a  supercomputer model of colliding galaxies as a novel way to probe  how much dark matter is out there. When the researchers compared  their results to images of real galaxies caught in the act of  colliding, they unveiled a puzzle.

The model's collisions created dramatic "tidal tails" of stars  only when the mass of each galaxy's dark-matter halo was fairly  low. The simulated tidal tails became pathetically short and stubby  as the team raised the dark-matter ratio.

Here's the dilemma: Popular theories of the evolution of the  universe predict that galaxies should have huge cocoons of dark  matter. However, several galaxy pairs have hurled tremendous tails  of stars into space. This implies--according to the computer model- -that the dark-matter halos around those particular galaxies are  wimpy, not massive. The team's report, led by postdoctoral  researcher John Dubinski, appears in the May 10 issue of the  Astrophysical Journal. Contact: John Dubinski--(408) 459-5246 or dubinski@ucolick.org

**Geology**

Coastal sleuths track the restless migration of sand off the  California shoreline

The beaches may look stable, but our sandy shores are driven  relentlessly down the coast by waves and currents. Led by geologist  Gary Griggs, a UCSC team is clarifying the big picture of sand  movement just offshore.

Sand grains, it seems, travel along certain submarine routes,  like cars following highways. Darting among treacherous coves in  nimble research boats, the team has mapped major thoroughfares  and parking lots for sand along the central California coast.

Most sand near Santa Cruz comes from the north, swept by the  oblique attack of waves in a process called littoral drift. Griggs  estimates some 300,000 cubic yards pass by every year, about one  dump truck full every 17 minutes. But beaches are interrupted by  rocky headlands--roadblocks for migrating sand. To learn how sand  moves around such obstacles, researcher James Tait had to map the  submarine geography.

Tait's team discovered large offshore areas devoid of sand.  Most sediment collects in submerged stream valleys carved out by  rivers when the sea level was lower, some 10,000 to 20,000 years  ago. Tait suspects these valleys trap sediment until storms churn  the water enough to carry sand over the ancient river banks.

To investigate sand pathways by computer, Tait developed a  mathematical tool with help from a seismologist. They tested the  method in Monterey Bay, which contains a complex blend of sand  from along the coast and several rivers. Tait's method sorted the  mix for thousands of samples, indicating how much sand came from  each source. Contact: Gary Griggs--(408) 459-5006 or griggs@cats.ucsc.edu

(Writer: Erik Stokstad)

**Chemistry**

Chemist's research on synthesizing organic compounds is patently  rewarding

Holding a patent, says chemist Bakthan Singaram, is like  playing Lotto: It could make you rich, but don't bank on it. Instead,  Singaram reaps his rewards by devising new chemical processes to  overcome some thorny challenges. In the end, his work may help a  host of industries, from drug companies to makers of computer  chips.

Singaram's team holds a patent on a better way to make a  family of chemical compounds called "beta-amino alcohols," used by  doctors to treat tuberculosis, heart disease, and other ailments.  When chemists make beta-amino alcohols in the lab, they get 50-50  mixtures of "left-handed" and "right-handed" versions. The two types  of molecules are mirror images of each other, but the human body  can use only one of them. For some drugs, the mirror image of the  bioactive form can trigger serious side effects.

The group has patented a method to make either left-handed or  right-handed beta-amino alcohols in essentially pure form. The  method draws upon turpentine oils from pine trees and boron  compounds related to those used in mild laundry detergents. "The  materials are environmentally friendly, relatively cheap, and  recyclable," says Singaram.

Another patent, still pending, also holds great promise.  Singaram and others worked on a safe way to make a gas called  silane. Under carefully controlled conditions, silane will decompose  into hydrogen gas and a layer of ultrapure silicon--desirable for  computer chips. However, silane has the nasty habit of exploding  when it contacts air. The new method lets workers make small  amounts of nearly pure silane and then "scrub" the rest of the gas  before it becomes a hazard. Contact: Bakthan Singaram--(408) 459-3154 or  singaram@chemistry.ucsc.edu

**Astronomy**

The "Great Circle Camera" scans sky sharply and swiftly

A clever new camera is sharpening our views of space. Created  in part by astronomer Dennis Zaritsky, the Great Circle Camera also  lets astronomers fiddle less with their telescopes and spend more  time stargazing.

The best way to photograph a large swath of sky, says  Zaritsky, is simply to "park the telescope and let the sky drift by."  But until now, that method, called a drift scan, only worked well  near the equator. Telescopes pointing anywhere else take blurry  images of stars during a drift scan, because the stars follow curved  paths on the sky. Zaritsky's camera corrects the distortion by  precisely rotating while the telescope itself stays still.

The drift scan can be at least twice as efficient as another  common technique, in which astronomers aim their telescope at a  particular object and follow along as it travels through the night  sky. That works fine for a single star or galaxy, but surveying wider  reaches of the sky becomes burdensome.

Zaritsky began using the Great Circle Camera two years ago in  Chile for the first complete four-color survey of the Large  Magellanic Cloud (LMC). Visible only from the Southern Hemisphere,  the LMC is one of the nearest galaxies to our own--and it covers a  substantial portion of the sky, making it an ideal target for a drift  scan. "The LMC is our best chance for really understanding an entire  galaxy," says Zaritsky. A detailed map of its stars, he says, will  shed light on how the galaxy has evolved over billions of years. Contact: Dennis Zaritsky--(408) 459-5170 or dennis@ucolick.org

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/05-96/051596-UCSC_Spr_96-Sci.html "Permalink to 051596-UCSC_Spr_96-Sci")
