---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz To Host Annual Research Symposium On Toxic Substances
author: Robert Irion
---	

SANTA CRUZ, CA--University of California scientists who study the  effects of toxic materials in the environment will convene at UC  Santa Cruz on Saturday, March 30, for the ninth annual research  symposium of the UC Toxic Substances Research and Teaching  Program.

Two parts of the symposium are open to the public. Faculty  members and graduate students will discuss their research at a  public session from 10 a.m. to 12 noon in room B-206, Earth and  Marine Sciences Building. In the afternoon, scientists will present  their work more informally at a public poster session, 2-4 p.m. at  the Cowell College Dining Hall.

Russell Flegal, professor of earth sciences at UCSC and an  expert on lead and other potentially toxic trace metals, will  introduce the morning session. Faculty speakers are as follows:
* Michael Johnson of UC Davis: "Defense Conversion and Mare  Island Opportunities."
* Arthur Winer of UCLA: "Air Toxics Research at the Southern  Campuses."
* John Melack of UC Santa Barbara: "New UC Programs in  Environmental Public Policy."

Three graduate student speakers will discuss topics such as  the ecotoxicology of wetlands in southern California and the  biodegradation of toxic wastes.

Based at UC Davis, the UC Toxic Substances Research and  Teaching Program supports research and graduate education in  toxics-related fields. It serves as a center for communication among  researchers, students, industry, the government, and the public.

For more information about the symposium, call the UC Davis  program at (916) 752-2097.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/032096-UCSC_hosts_systemwi.html "Permalink to 032096-UCSC_hosts_systemwi")
