---
layout: post
title: Pulitzer Prize Winner Is A Graduate Of UC Santa Cruz
author: Robert Irion
---

**Science Journalist Laurie Garrett Will Deliver A Free Public Lecture At UCSC On Friday, April 12**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--An alumna of the University of California, Santa  Cruz, has received the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for explanatory  journalism, Columbia University announced today.

Science and medical reporter Laurie Garrett won for a series  of articles last year in Newsday, a daily newspaper in Long Island,  New York, about the May 1995 outbreak of the deadly ebola virus in  Zaire. The award carries a cash prize of $3,000.

Garrett, who graduated from Merrill College in 1975 with a  B.A. in biology, is the first UCSC graduate to win a Pulitzer Prize.  She spent eight years as a science correspondent at National Public  Radio and has worked at Newsday since 1988. In February, she  received the Alumni Achievement Award from UCSC's Alumni  Association in recognition of her career accomplishments.

Garrett is in the midst of a two-week visit to UCSC as a  Regents' Lecturer, a position reserved for distinguished guest  instructors. She flew to New York early this week to accept the  Pulitzer Prize, but will return to UCSC to deliver a previously  scheduled public lecture on her acclaimed 1994 book, The Coming  Plague: Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance. The talk begins  at 7:30 p.m. Friday, April 12, in Classroom Unit 2 on the UCSC  campus. Admission is free.

Next week, Garrett will continue a series of activities  sponsored by five units at UCSC: the Biology Department, the  AIDS/HIV Prevention Program, the Science Communication Program,  the Writing Program, and Merrill College. In addition, the UCSC  Alumni Association has rescheduled a public luncheon with Garrett  at India Joze from Tuesday, April 9, to Tuesday, April 16, at noon.  Guests must reserve tickets in advance by calling (408) 459-2530  before 3 p.m. Friday, April 12.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/04-96/040996-Pulitzer_Prize_winn.html "Permalink to 040996-Pulitzer_Prize_winn")
