---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Long Marine Lab is recruiting new docents** to give tours to the general public and help conduct classes for schoolchildren. A two-month series of docent-training classes begins in early January. Registration deadline is November 27. Lab educators will hold an orientation session for interested applicants at 6 p.m. Monday, October 21, at Long Marine Lab. Call ext. 2358 for more information.   

**Free drop-in bicycle maintenance** is available during the fall quarter on Thursdays from 4 to 6 p.m. and Fridays from 3 to 6 p.m. on the Recreation Office porch at the East Field House. This service is cosponsored by the Office of Physical Education, Recreation, and Sports and Transportation and Parking Services. For more information, call ext. 2806.  

**Flu shots are being offered** to the campus community at the Cowell Student Health Center. No appointment is needed. There is a $10 fee. Student Health Services encourages people in high risk groups to be immunized. For more information, call ext. 2636.   

**Two new coaches** have been hired for the intercollegiate athletic program: **Laura Mitchell,** who coached last season at the University of Dallas, will direct the women's basketball program; and **Dave Muldawer,** a four-time all-American and a 1994 UCSC grad, will head the women's tennis program.  

**Workshops on on-line research** are being offered by McHenry Library staff during the fall quarter. Classes include introductory and advanced on-line research, basics of searching psychology and sociology databases, research on the World Wide Web, women's studies resources on the web, and a special workshop for those researching interdisciplinary topics. To enroll and for more information, contact Debbie Murphy at ext. 3253 or by e-mail at damurphy@cats.   

**As a part of UCSC's expanded recycling effort,** Physical Plant has purchased a new truck for transporting recyclable items and has distributed 300 plastic collection bins around campus. The goal is to recycle 50 percent of the campus's waste by the year 2000. For more information, call David Wade at ext. 3671.   

**Applications are now available for the 1997 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program,** including the Minority Graduate Fellowships. Fellowships are awarded for study and research leading to master's or doctoral degrees in the mathematical, physical, biological, engineering, and behavioral and social sciences, including the history of science and the philosophy of science, and to research-based Ph.D. degrees in science education. The application deadline is November 7, 1996. For details, contact UCSC department chairs or contact the program directly at (423) 241-4300 or via e-mail at nsfgrfp@orau.gov. 

**The University of California Pacific Rim Research Program has issued a call for proposals** for the 1997-98 academic year. The program supports collaborative research by university faculty and their colleagues in other institutions throughout the Pacific Rim region. Proposals, which may be from any discipline, should address questions that contribute to an understanding of the region as a whole. For more information, contact Carol McClain (510) 987-9473, director of multicampus research planning and programs, or Ann M. Gilbert (510) 987-9472, grant administrator.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-10-14/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note")
