---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Names Thomas Vani To Oversee Business And Administrative Services
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Thomas Vani has been named vice chancellor of  Business and Administrative Services at the University of  California, Santa Cruz. Vani comes to UCSC from UC Berkeley, where  he has worked since 1987, most recently as executive director of  financial and business services. His appointment, which follows a  nationwide search, begins August 1. Vani succeeds James F. Sullivan,  who has held the position on an interim basis since last September.

Vani's appointment was announced by Executive Vice  Chancellor R. Michael Tanner. "We are pleased to have Thomas Vani  joining us," said Tanner. "He brings talent and experience to a  position that requires vision, leadership, and strong management  skills."

As vice chancellor of Business and Administrative Services  (BAS), Vani will oversee business, accounting, and fiscal services;  computing and telecommunications services; administrative  information systems; facilities planning and management; physical  plant and grounds operations; and health and safety services. He will  manage more than 480 employees and a budget of $41 million.

Vani has worked for the University of California for fifteen  years. He began his UC career at UCLA, where he worked from 1980  until 1987 overseeing the campus's residence halls. Vani coordinated  the Olympic Village at UCLA, a multiyear team effort for which he  received recognition from the Olympic Committee. He moved to UCB  in 1987 and served as director of housing and dining services until  1992, when he added oversight of the mail and campus copy services  to his responsibilities. In 1994, he became executive director of  auxiliary enterprises; in 1995, he was named executive director of  financial and business services. While at UCB, Vani was a member of  the Campus Emergency Response Team and coordinated activities  during the Loma Prieta earthquake and the 1991 fire in the Oakland  hills. Prior to joining UC, Vani worked for Dobbs International, an  airline catering company, as a supervisor and manager.

Vani holds a B.A. in communications from the New School for  Social Research and a master's degree in communications from  California State University, Northridge.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/08-96/080196-Business_and_admini.html "Permalink to 080196-Business_and_admini")
