---
layout: post
title: Economist Kenneth Kletzer Discusses Contract Enforcement Without Laws During Public Lecture May 14
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--How do individuals, firms, or states enforce  agreements over time without lawyers, contracts, or courts? That  will be the topic of a free public lecture by professor of economics  Kenneth Kletzer of the University of California, Santa Cruz, on  Tuesday, May 14. The event will begin at 8 p.m. in the Performing  Arts Concert Hall at UCSC.

In his talk, entitled "Contracts Without Laws: Premarket  Economics from Villages to Sovereign States," Kletzer will discuss  his research on what he calls "mutual help arrangements" between  individuals or families, informal credit markets in poor agrarian  societies, and international political or economic cooperation  between governments.

"What these relationships have in common is that one party  must make a payment to or take an action that is beneficial for  another while trusting that his or her counterpart will repay or  return the favor in the future without entering into a contract  enforceable by an external legal authority," explains Kletzer.  In today's modern market economies, financial contracts rely  on a legal system backed by the power of the state, notes Kletzer. It  is frequently presumed that without any legal means of enforcing  cooperation, barter would become the predominant form of trade.

But credit markets emerged before reliable legal systems did,  and the development of commercial laws followed needs that were  created in emerging markets. Various forms of mutual help occur in  many societies, with or without reliable legal rights and  authorities, says Kletzer, whose work shows how informal contracts  enforced by the participants can be sustained without legal means or  the involvement of external parties.

Kletzer's talk is presented as part of a series of inaugural  lectures offered by UCSC faculty who have attained the rank of full  professor. Kletzer came to UCSC as a full professor in 1992 from the  faculty of Yale University.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/05-96/050396-UCSC_economist_Ken_.html "Permalink to 050396-UCSC_economist_Ken_")
