---
layout: post
title: Drilling Expedition Off Pacific Northwest Coast To Probe The Relentless Flow Of Fluids Beneath The Seafloor
author: Robert Irion
---

**470-Foot Research Vessel Joides Resolution Docks At San Francisco's Pier 30/32 June 16-19**

SAN FRANCISCO, CA--Rains and rivers run endlessly into the ocean,  nourishing its life and affecting its chemistry for better or worse.  Another cycle of water may determine the character of the sea even  more profoundly--a cycle hidden under the ocean itself, within  sediments and rocks just beneath the dark seafloor.

Driven by the heat of the planet's interior, water courses  through pores and cracks under the ocean in earth's upper crust. The  water leaches minerals as it flows, altering the crust and suffusing  the ocean with important elements. This process occurs  dramatically at "black smokers" and other hot vents along volcanic  midocean ridges. It happens to a far greater extent along the  sweeping flanks of these ridges, and possibly under most of the rest  of the ocean as well. But because the seafloor is so remote,  scientists know precious little about the details.

Now, a floating community of researchers hopes to take the  closest look yet at this intricate cycle by drilling into the seafloor  off the Pacific Northwest, where new oceanic crust churns toward  the continent. Their voyage, Leg 168 of the international Ocean  Drilling Program, sets steam June 20 from San Francisco on a two-month expedition aboard the 470-foot JOIDES Resolution.

The team will implant four sophisticated instruments in drill  holes to record fluid pressures and temperatures over time--the  first attempt to monitor adjacent spots within a marine  hydrothermal system. Researchers will study cores of rock and  sediment hauled onto the ship for telltale signs of fluid flow and  chemical interactions. The work should help reveal how quickly  water moves through crustal rocks, how deep within the crust this  flow occurs, and the extent to which heat and minerals stream into  the ocean.

"We've come to realize that this kind of water circulation is  much more important than we believed just a few years ago," says  Earl Davis of the Geological Survey of Canada, cochief scientist for  the mission. "We suspect these processes take place within a large  part of the seafloor, perhaps most of it, and play important roles in  forming mineral deposits and in helping to control the composition  of seawater."

Joining Davis as cochief scientist is Andrew Fisher, assistant  professor of earth sciences at the University of California, Santa  Cruz. About two dozen other scientists will sail on Leg 168 from the  U.S., Canada, Great Britain, France, Germany, Sweden, and Japan.  They'll be aided by about 80 technicians, drillers, and crew members  on the JOIDES Resolution, which stocks five miles of drill pipe and a  derrick one-fifth the height of the Eiffel Tower.

The ship's destination is the eastern flank of the Juan de Fuca  seafloor ridge, about 130 miles west of the border between the U.S.  and Canada. New oceanic crust created at this ridge spreads slowly  toward North America, where it plows under the continent and gives  rise to the earthquakes and volcanoes of the Pacific Northwest.  Before this crust subducts into the planet, a wedge of sediment  settles on top of it and prevents the rock below from directly  exchanging fluids and heat with the ocean.

"Usually it takes about 65 million years for sediments to seal  off the oceanic crust," says Fisher, who will embark on his seventh  Ocean Drilling Program expedition. "Here, because the continent is so  close to the spreading zone, it takes only a few million years. So we  can sample a large range of the evolution of oceanic crust within a  very short distance."

Davis, Fisher, and their colleagues plan to drill into two types  of crust near the thin "toe" where continental sediments begin to  build up. At one series of sites, the crust is flat and smooth. At the  other sites, the crust has crumpled into peaks and troughs  underlying the layer of sediments. "We think these hills can create  an extra instability," Fisher says. "One of the things we will test is  whether fluids flow more vigorously in such regions."

The researchers will place two instrument packages, called  "CORKs," at different spots along each of the two series of drill  holes. As tall as a three-story building, each CORK contains devices  that will record, with exquisite sensitivity, pressures and  temperatures inside the drill holes. As their names imply, the CORKs  also plug the tops of the holes, allowing the fluid flows beneath to  return to their natural states within a few weeks or months.  Scientists will retrieve the data over the next several years with  manned submersibles or remotely operated vehicles.

Results from the expedition promise to go beyond mere  academic interest in the plumbing of earth's oceanic crust. Davis  notes that the entire volume of the world's oceans cycles through  these hydrothermal systems every one or two million years. "That  greatly influences the chemistry of the ocean," he says. He adds that  fluids and other foreign materials plunge back into the earth with  the oceanic crust at subduction zones. That drives the nature of  many volcanoes--high water content can make magma more  explosive, for example.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/06-96/061296-Ocean_Drilling_Prog.html "Permalink to 061296-Ocean_Drilling_Prog")
