---
layout: post
title: Awards And Honors
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Gary Miles,** professor of history, has been nominated for two national prizes for his book, _Livy: Reconstructing Early Rome_ (Cornell University Press, 1995): the American Philological Association's 1996 Charles J. Goodwin Award of Merit and the American Historical Association's 1996 James Henry Breasted Prize.  

**Anita Diaz,** director of Student Health Services, has been selected by the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC) to serve as a national surveyor. In this role, Diaz will evaluate the standards, structures, services, and activities of health care organizations. Founded in 1979, the AAAHC helps ambulatory health care organizations improve the quality of care they provide by assessing quality of care, providing professional consultation and education, and ultimately, awarding accreditation.  

**Mark Franko,** associate professor of theater arts, received a special citation from the de la Torre Bueno Prize committee for his book _Dancing Modernism, Performing Politics_ (Indiana University Press, 1995)_._ Four books were recognized for outstanding dance scholarship--one received the de la Torre Bueno Prize and three, including Franko's book, received special citations. In addition to the citation, Franko was asked to choreograph a dance piece for the September 6 awards ceremony, held at Lincoln Center in New York.  

**Graham Bice,** principal planner for the campus and director of physical and environmental planning for the UC MBEST Center at Fort Ord, earned certification as a member of the American Institute of Certified Planners. Certification requires specific education, experience, and a passing performance on a rigorous planning examination.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-10-14/honors.htm "Permalink to Awards and Honors")
