---
layout: post
title: Scientists Convene To Discuss The Host Of Challenges And Opportunities Raised By Verifying Compliance With The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
author: Robert Irion
---	

Editor's notes: Researchers will discuss the Comprehensive Test Ban  Treaty Verification Regime at the American Geophysical Union  meeting on Sunday, December 15, during sessions U71B and U72C in  room 104, Moscone Center, San Francisco, and during poster session  U11A on Monday morning in Hall D. AGU also will hold a news  conference at 11 a.m. Monday in room 112.

SAN FRANCISCO, CA--Seismologist Thorne Lay envisions his two- year-old son growing up in a world with no more nuclear explosions.  If scientists can devise reliable ways to monitor compliance with  the new Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, Lay's vision very well may  come to pass.

Researchers from a sweeping array of disciplines will gather  today (December 15) at the fall meeting of the American Geophysical  Union in San Francisco to take stock of the extraordinary scientific  challenges posed by the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). Lay,  a professor of earth sciences at the University of California, Santa  Cruz, will cochair the daylong session of talks with Steven Bratt,  program manager for the CTBT's International Data Centre. A poster  session will follow on Monday morning, December 16.

Speakers will explore the progress to date toward meeting the  rigorous verification demands of the CTBT and the research issues  that scientists still must address. More than 140 nations have  signed the treaty, which was opened for signature in September at  the United Nations. Although the treaty will not go into force for at  least two years, pending ratification within each country, it  requires that a verification regime be put into place in the interim.  The clearinghouse for data from the verification networks will be  the International Data Centre (IDC), to be established in Vienna.  Bratt is part of an international team that has set up a prototype of  the IDC in Arlington, Virginia.

When the IDC is fully operational, up to 10 gigabytes of  scientific data--equivalent to 10,000 floppy disks--will stream  into the center every day. "These data will be unique and obviously  will have many valuable scientific uses," Bratt says. "But we will  need to focus on their main use, which is verification. We need to  engage the best and the brightest minds we have to help solve the  serious problem of how to most efficiently gather and process all of  that information."

The CTBT's verification regime covers four main types of data:

* Seismic. The most central of the monitoring technologies,  seismology is critical for detecting vibrations that emanate from  underground nuclear tests. A state-of-the-art global network of 50  primary and 120 auxiliary seismic stations will ceaselessly record  all signals from earthquakes, explosions, mining blasts, oil- exploration tests, and other groundshaking events. Stations will be  installed or upgraded in many parts of the world, including China,  Russia, the Middle East, and other sensitive regions, to support the  new CTBT monitoring requirements.
* Infrasound. A new 60-station infrasound network, the first  of its kind since nuclear testing in the atmosphere was banned in  1963, will be critical for detecting and deterring such testing in the  future. In addition to its role in the CTBT, this network should  provide valuable information about phenomena such as volcanic  eruptions, meteors, and atmospheric "baroms"--bizarre roaring  sound waves in polar regions.
* Hydroacoustic. Eleven sensitive listening posts in the  world's oceans will monitor for the shock waves produced by  underwater nuclear explosions. Expected scientific benefits include  detailed sonic pictures of submarine earthquakes, volcanoes, and  seafloor collapses.
* Radionuclear. Eighty stations will regularly collect air  samples to search for particles and gases that can escape from  nuclear tests. Unlike the other three technologies, where detection  occurs at the speed of sound, it can take days for such substances to  drift within range of a radionuclide detector.

The international sharing of such a wide range of data, some of  it potentially incriminating, is unprecedented in the arms-control  arena and perhaps in all of science. The only comparable area, Lay  notes, is the free exchange of data on atmospheric weather patterns.  The CTBT research agreements arose largely because the scientific  community convinced United Nations negotiators that the monitoring  network was feasible. Even so, much work remains. The  seismological challenges alone, says Lay, are daunting.

While the treaty calls for a total ban on nuclear testing, there  is a threshhold beneath which the seismic network will be unable to  detect tiny events, Lay says. However, much of the research by  network designers is driven by the U.S. objective of detecting  explosions as small as a few kilotons "evasively tested," meaning  that the testers devise some way to prevent the explosion from  vibrating the surrounding rock as strongly. Suspending the device  within a large subterranean cavity is one such technique. To unveil  all such explosions, says Lay, "We'd have to be able to look  everywhere in the world for a magnitude 2.5 event, detect it, and  discriminate between an earthquake, nuclear test, mining blast, or  some other event. That's a staggering objective."

Initially at least, the CTBT's International Monitoring System  will have as its goal the worldwide detection of all events of  magnitude 4 or greater--equivalent to the seismic waves triggered  by a one-kiloton device fully coupled with the ground around it. Lay  terms this a "major advance" over current capabilities.

The ultimate goal, says Bratt, is to make it as difficult as  possible for a nuclear event to slip through the monitoring system's  cracks. If the seismic network has a 90 percent probability of  detecting a magnitude 4 event, it might have a 50-50 chance to hear  an explosion at some lower threshhold--perhaps enough to deter  potential violators. If the testers set off the explosion in a large  cavity, they increase the odds that telltale radionuclides will  escape into the atmosphere from cracks in the ground. "These all are  risks that an evader must evaluate," Bratt says. "We'll be making it  very risky for someone to attempt to evade and be successful."

The IDC in Vienna will exist solely to process all of the  incoming data and characterize each event as thoroughly as possible.  However, it will be up to the signatory countries to decide whether  to bring an accusation before the United Nations and demand an on- site inspection. "A country can ask the IDC to carefully reanalyze a  particular event," Bratt says. "However, even if we think that it has  feathers, a yellow bill, and webbed feet, we can't call it a duck." In  that way, he says, the IDC will remain a neutral scientific entity.

Technologically advanced countries, especially those with  global interests in national security, will continue to rely upon their  own data resources to augment any potential detections from the  IDC. These include enhanced networks of instruments already  present in the CTBT Verification Regime, such as denser arrays of  seismic stations in key parts of the world or strategically  positioned hydrophones. Countries will continue to use many other  means that negotiators opted not to include in the final CTBT, such  as satellite imagery, detection of electromagnetic pulses, and  monitoring of effluents in rivers and coastal zones.

The U.S. Department of Defense budgeted $28 million in fiscal  year 1997 for continued deployment of the International Monitoring  System. Of that budget, $8.8 million was devoted to studies related  to basic CTBT monitoring research. Scientists submitted their  applications for those funds in November.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/12-96/121596-Scientists_convene_.html "Permalink to 121596-Scientists_convene_")
