---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Physicist Helps Plan Advanced Gamma-ray Telescope
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Stars twinkle serenely and galaxies swirl like  wisps of mist when we view the universe in visible light. However,  those pictures mask a violent universe of exploding supernovas,  voracious black holes, and other prodigious objects. Astronomers  glimpse that bizarre realm through windows of light such as x-rays  and gamma rays--the most energetic light waves of all, shielded  from our view by earth's atmosphere.

If funding permits, a new telescope orbiting the earth within a  decade will capture gamma rays more effectively than ever before,  expanding our knowledge of the violent cosmos. A group led by  Stanford University has proposed the device, called the Gamma-ray  Large Area Space Telescope, or GLAST. The group includes the Santa  Cruz Institute for Particle Physics at UC Santa Cruz, where  scientists have pioneered some of the intricate technology that will  drive the satellite.

Indeed, GLAST will look more like a particle-physics detector  in space than a traditional telescope. It will detect gamma rays by  converting them into charged particles and then tracking those  particles, with extraordinary precision, through layers of finely  etched silicon. The resulting data will help astrophysicists probe  the rapidly spinning stars known as pulsars, the cores of active  galaxies, and mysterious "gamma-ray bursters"--intense flares of  energy from sources that researchers have not yet identified.

"Our goal is to launch the telescope by 2005, which is  blistering fast by NASA's standards," says project scientist William  Atwood of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. "Interest in the  project is mounting quickly. We think we can fly a prototype on a  balloon flight within two to three years." Atwood, project director  Peter Michelson of Stanford, and international collaborators have  sent a request to NASA and the U.S. Department of Energy to fund the  prototype. The full telescope may require between $100 million and  $300 million to build and operate.

The team believes the telescope's promise justifies its price  tag, especially because it represents a major leap ahead of EGRET, a  gamma-ray telescope now in orbit. "EGRET has found unexpected  things, but GLAST will be 100 times more sensitive," says Robert  Johnson, associate professor of physics at UCSC. "We think GLAST  has the potential to shed light on some of the most exciting  phenomena in the universe."

Johnson's niche on the project is to refine the miniature  electronics necessary to handle torrents of signals from the silicon  detectors, which will form the heart of GLAST. Here's how the  telescope will work:

GLAST will consist of 49 "towers" of silicon and other  materials in a block almost six feet across. Each tower will include  two dozen layers of silicon stacked like pancakes, alternating with  ten thin layers of lead. When a gamma ray strikes one of the towers,  the lead will convert it into a pair of charged particles--an electron  and a positron. Each particle will create a track in the silicon, like  the contrail of a high-altitude jet, as it zings through the rest of the  layers. A final block of material, made of cesium iodide, will stop  the particles and measure their energies.

Physicists will etch the silicon wafers with thousands of  "microstrips" that emit tiny pulses of electricity when particles flit  past. Spaced just one-quarter of a millimeter apart, the strips will  pinpoint the particle tracks. GLAST scientists will then trace back  along those paths to determine the exact spots in the sky where the  gamma rays started their journeys across the universe. Researchers  at the Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics and elsewhere  devised this silicon microstrip technology for experiments at high- energy physics labs on earth--including the core of a detector for  the now-defunct Superconducting Super Collider.

Each silicon microstrip will require its own amplifier and  sophisticated memory and readout components to transfer data into  the satellite's computers. GLAST poses a tough challenge to Johnson  and his coworkers: The electronic components must use only as much  power as it takes to light three 100-watt light bulbs. Otherwise, the  satellite would overheat. "That's about five times less power per  channel than in typical particle-physics experiments," Johnson says.  "We'll be pushing our design and engineering in that area. Much of the  rest of the technology already exists."

If GLAST succeeds, it will form a perfect partner to MILAGRO,  a gamma-ray observatory under construction near Los Alamos  National Laboratory in New Mexico. MILAGRO uses the dark waters of  a covered reservoir to watch for ghostly flashes of light--the debris  from gamma-ray collisions in the atmosphere. UCSC astrophysicists,  led by Donald Coyne, are contributing their expertise in electronics  and astronomy to the project. GLAST will probe lower-energy gamma  rays, while MILAGRO is best for gamma rays produced by the most  energetic events in the universe.

Johnson says he spends about one-quarter of his time working  on GLAST. He devotes a similar amount of time to the "B factory," an  advanced particle-physics machine under development at the  Stanford Linear Accelerator Center. About half of his time goes  toward teaching and working with undergraduate and graduate  students at UCSC.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/031296-UCSC_physicist_help.html "Permalink to 031296-UCSC_physicist_help")
