---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Psychology professor Aida Hurtado and community studies professor Pat Zavella presented their research** at the first annual Latino Legislative Caucus and University of California Retreat held at UCLA on November 14. Zavella's presentation focused on the restructuring of agriculture, plant closures, and poverty in Watsonville; Hurtado presented recent results of a three-year study on the UC eligibility of Latino high school graduates in California.  

**The Bay Tree Bookstore is having its annual holiday book sale for faculty, staff, and students.** In-stock items from the  general book department (not special orders or course books) are 20 percent off through December 23.   

**A scholarship fund in memory of Mei Wang** has been established, honoring the life of a graduate student who died on November 22 from injuries suffered in a car accident. The Mei Wang Scholarship for Women in Computer Engineering is intended to help support female graduate students in computer engineering or computer science. The scholarship is a testament to the perseverance with which Wang pursued her educational goals. Those who wish to donate may send checks to the UC Santa Cruz Foundation, University Advancement, Carriage House. Checks should be made out to the UC Santa Cruz Foundation and marked in memory of Mei Wang. For more information, call ext. 5071.  

**A symposium on the Foundations of Newtonian Scholarship** is planned at the Royal Society of London on March 21, 1997. Michael Nauenberg, professor emeritus of physics at UCSC and an authority on the history of Isaac Newton's contributions to physics, is serving on the organizing committee for the international symposium. Historians and philosophers of science will join practicing scientists in discussing recent developments in our understanding of Newton's scientific work, especially as contained in his two great publications, the _Principia_ and the _Opticks_. Nauenberg invites interested members of the campus community to contact him for information at michael@mike.ucsc.edu or ext. 2736.  

**Counseling and Psychological Services has three new pre-doctoral psychology interns** for the current academic year. They are Michael Farinha, a clinical psychology doctoral student from Minnesota School of Professional Psychology; Teresa Rapposelli, a clinical psychology doctoral student from California School of Professional Psychology, Alameda; and Jennifer Taylor, a counseling psychology doctoral student from Washington State University. The interns work as full-time staff in CPS and provide individual, group, and crisis services to UCSC students; develop and implement educational and training workshops for students and staff; and provide consultation to residential housing and the wider campus community.   

Counseling and Psychological Services' Pre-Doctoral Internship Program in Psychology was given full approval by the American Psychological Association in 1995. It is recognized nationally as an accredited training program for psychology graduate students who are advanced to candidacy and are required to have a yearlong internship in order to complete their doctoral degree.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-12-09/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 12-9-96")
