---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Counseling and Psychological Services' training director MaryJan Murphy hosted the annual Northern California Intern Training Conference** at UCSC on November 8. Approximately 75 psychology interns, staff, and training directors from counseling centers throughout northern California (UC, state, and private universities) attended the conference. The theme of the conference was Multicultural Issues in Counseling and Supervision.   

**"Media Services Web Site Development-Lessons Learned (And Learning!)"** was the topic of a presentation by Media Services staff members Susan Chesley, Bruce Horn, Sandy Shaffer, and Christie Caldwell at the annual conference of Directors of Educational Technology/California Higher Education (DET/CHE) on November 19. Their presentation explained the process they have gone through to establish the Media Services Web site and demonstrated its capabilities.   

**Faculty who are members of the Academic Senate are invited to prepare a proposal to be a visiting scholar at Los Alamos National Laboratory** (LANL). The LANL Visiting Scholar Program funds UC faculty to do research at the laboratory and LANL staff to do research and related teaching at a UC campus. The intent of this program is to allow the host institution and the participant to benefit from closer professional interactions while fostering collaborative research between the campus and the laboratory. Those selected will have their salary and associated expenses covered while carrying out their research and related activities for a period of six months to one year. Proposals are due February 10, 1997. For more information, contact Carolyn Beckmann at (505) 665-9565 or via e-mail at cbeckmann@lanl.gov. 

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-12-16/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 12-16-96")
