---
layout: post
title: UC Regents Elevate Astronomer Sandra Faber To Prestigious Post Of University Professor
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The Board of Regents of the University of  California has named Sandra M. Faber, professor of astronomy and  astrophysics at UC Santa Cruz and one of the world's foremost  astronomers, to the small circle of leading scholars and educators  known as "university professors." The honor is the highest that UC  bestows to recognize the research accomplishments and teaching  efforts of its faculty members.

Faber will lecture at other UC campuses, meet with graduate  and undergraduate students, give public talks, and confer on issues  in higher education with members of government, business, and  other segments of the community, while keeping her primary  position at UCSC and the UC Observatories/Lick Observatory. Her  term will last for five years.

"Professor Faber's scholarly achievements and far-reaching  impact have been profound," wrote UCSC Chancellor Karl S. Pister in  his letter of nomination to the Regents. "Her teaching is  inspirational and her service to the university, to the international  academy, and to the world of public policy has been consistently  superior."

In announcing the honor, UC President Richard C. Atkinson  noted in a letter to Faber, "The title university professor is reserved  for scholars of international distinction who are recognized and  respected as teachers of exceptional ability. This action reflects the  high esteem in which you are held by your colleagues, the university  administration, and the members of the Board of Regents."

Faber's appointment brings the current roster of university  professors to eighteen, all but two of whom have retired from active  teaching. The list includes Hayden White, professor emeritus of  history of consciousness, who in 1990 was the first UCSC faculty  member selected for the honor. Other university professors include  such well-known figures as physicists E. Margaret Burbidge, Edward  Teller, and Charles Townes; chemists Melvin Calvin, Donald Cram,  and Glenn Seaborg; microbiologist J. Michael Bishop; and sociologist  Neil Smelser.

Faber, age 51, is renowned for her research in extragalactic  astronomy and cosmology. She has made significant contributions in  three areas: the structure and formation of elliptical galaxies; the  nature, compositions, and motions of stars within a galaxy as  related to their ages; and the streaming motions of large numbers of  galaxies. Important concepts such as "cold dark matter" and the  "Great Attractor" are direct results of work by Faber and her  colleagues.

Faber has worked closely on two of the major optical  astronomy ventures of recent years: the Hubble Space Telescope and  the W. M. Keck Observatory. She is a member of Hubble's wide  field/planetary camera team, which directs many of the telescope's  most striking observations. She and her coworkers diagnosed the  flaw in the telescope's mirror and recommended strategies for its  repair. For nearly two decades Faber also has helped plan and develop  the Keck Observatory in Hawaii, now home to the world's largest  optical and infrared telescope.

Faber's other service to her community has included  membership on the California Council on Science and Technology and  her current posts on the President's Advisory Panel of the National  Academy of Sciences (NAS), the Committee on Astronomy and  Astrophysics of the NAS, and the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie  Institution of Washington.

Her peers have recognized Faber with several other noteworthy  honors, including election to the National Academy of Sciences at  age 40 and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences four years  later. At UCSC she was named Faculty Research Lecturer in 1990,  the highest honor given by Santa Cruz faculty members to their  colleagues.

Faber earned her B.A. in physics from Swarthmore College and  her Ph.D. in astronomy from Harvard University. She joined the  faculty at UCSC and UCO/Lick Observatory in 1972.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/02-96/020596-Astronomer_Sandra_F.html "Permalink to 020596-Astronomer_Sandra_F")
