---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Photography Services is holding its annual Halloween costume photo contest.** They'll be taking pictures for free at 33 Communications Building on Thursday, October 31, between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. and 3 and 5 p.m. All those photographed will be entered automatically in the contest and become eligible to win a prize. The photos will be exhibited at Photography Services.  

**Open Enrollment begins on November 1** and continues until midnight November 24. During Open Enrollment employees may make changes in the following benefit plans: medical, dental, optical, legal, Dependent Care Assistance (DepCare), and Tax Savings on Insurance Premiums (TIP). All enrollment changes will be made by phone. Consult your personalized 1996 Open Enrollment Statement and the _Benefits Update_ newsletter for detailed information.   

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by Patricia Zavella, professor of community studies, on the topic "Global Restructuring, Local Effects: Mexicanas' Transnational Cultural Formations" on October 30 in the Cowell Provost's House. The session begins at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call ext. 4899.  

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** continues on November 4 with a talk by Franke Wilmer of the Political Science Department at Montana State University. He will be speaking on the topic "The Indigenous Voice, World Politics, and Industrial Globalization" from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call ext. 2833.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-10-28/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 10-28-96")
