---
layout: post
title: "The Organ Of Emotion: New Video Uses Videos And Demonstrations To Show The Key Role The Human Face Plays In Communication"
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Police use the face to track down suspects. Flight  attendants are trained to mask their true emotions by putting a  smile on their face. And studies show that physical attractiveness  is linked to popularity--even among kindergartners.

Identity. Emotion. Attraction. The face is like a bulletin board  that conveys who we are and what we feel, says sociologist Dane  Archer of the University of California, Santa Cruz, who has produced  an engaging new video about the power of facial communication.

"I wanted to give people a sense of the range of important  information that is located in the face," says Archer. "Everybody  knows the face is a window on our emotions, but it's much more than  that. The face is vital to our ability to communicate and to  understand each other."

Archer's video, The Human Face: Emotions, Identities and  Masks, examines twelve aspects of the face and uses lively  interviews and demonstrations to illustrate the material. During the  30-minute tape, viewers are presented with several opportunities to  test their ability to "decode" messages conveyed by the face. The  twelve properties discussed are:
* The organ of emotion -- Reading the face
* True emotions vs. masks -- Facial mythology
* Culture and the face -- Hair
* The face as it ages -- Beauty
* Identity -- Manufactured beauty
* Pupil size -- Piercing the face

When it comes to identity, people are very skilled at  recognizing faces, says Archer. Even walking into a crowded room,  it's easy to spot a friend or family member. But it is difficult to  describe that face in such a way that a stranger will be able to pick  out your friend. In The Human Face, a police officer describes the  tricks he uses to help him remember the faces on "wanted" posters,  such as noting if the suspect looks like a "young Walter Matthau."

In the realm of emotions, Archer says researchers have  identified at least six facial expressions that are universally  recognized: happiness, anger, disgust, sadness, surprise, and fear.  Recent work suggests that contempt is also recognized cross- culturally.

Of course, understanding facial emotions is complicated by the  blends of expressions and counterfeit emotions that are common,  notes Archer.

"We've all learned to lie with our faces," says Archer. "It's  common to tell a white lie to make somebody feel better--like  university students trying to look interested during a lecture. Being  a professor is one of the many occupations in which reading faces is  pretty important."

Humans enjoy a subtlety of facial expression that other  animals lack, and we combine it with other forms of communication  in unique ways. "We use sarcasm to send a message verbally and  contradict it facially," says Archer. "So the face is used to send  signals and even to contradict messages."

Archer's video includes a segment that describes the  difference between a genuine smile and an artificial one (a genuine  grin uses the muscles around the eyes, as well as those around the  mouth) and gives viewers an opportunity to test their expertise.

Other facial indicators are beyond our control, however. Pupil  size, for example, responds to available light, but also to increased  interest or arousal and to some drugs. Experienced gem buyers wear  sunglasses to help avoid revealing how much they really want a  particular gem, notes Archer.

Because faces are so prominent, the changes we make-- whether with makeup, cosmetic surgery, jewelry, hairstyles, or  other modifications--invariably attract attention.

"Physical attraction regarding the face is really fascinating,"  says Archer. "Internationally, the standards of beauty are incredibly  variable. There's facial scarring in parts of Africa, facial tattooing  among the early Maoris of New Zealand, and some Indonesian tribes  stretch their earlobes to the size of dinner plates--all of which  conflict with conventional Western notions about beauty. There are  certainly facial looks that in one culture represent beauty and in  another culture would be terrifying."

The Human Face includes interviews with people who discuss  their decisions to have cosmetic surgery, pierce their tongues, nose,  and ears, and, in one man's case, to stretch his earlobes. In the video,  one man with a pierced nose describes the reactions of others,  including potential employers. "The face is your personal billboard-- it never gets totally hidden," says Archer. "These people have staked  a lot on an aesthetic that may turn out to be temporary."

One of those interviewed in The Human Face is Dr. Marie E.  Pletsch, a plastic surgeon who describes in detail the procedure  involved in performing a face-lift. "Most people don't realize what's  involved, so it's very tough for some people to watch this segment,"  says Archer.

Just as facial adornment changes over the years, so has the  mythology surrounding what can be learned from the face. "People  used to think you could tell honesty from the face and identify  different types of criminals from the face," says Archer. "The most  famous instance was the Nazis, who used measurements of the face- -the width of the nose and height of the forehead, for example--to  assert the superiority of Aryans. Of course, there was no validity to  any of those claims, but there's probably still a lot of facial  mythology around, like the idea that you can tell from eye contact if  someone is shifty or reliable."

An expert on nonverbal communication, Archer has written two  books on the topic, but the subject clearly lends itself to videotape.  The Human Face is the fifth video in a University of California series  Archer has produced on nonverbal communication. Previous videos  cover international differences in gestures, vocal paralanguage (the  nontext parts of speech, such as pronunciation, intonation, accent,  and emotion), and important verbal and nonverbal clues used in  communication. His tapes, each of which is accompanied by an  instructor's guide, are being used in more than 2,000 universities  and colleges around the world, including in Europe, Australia, New  Zealand, Japan, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Instructors find them  valuable in courses that range from anthropology and sociology to  linguistics, speech communication, psychology, and even cross- cultural training programs offered by government agencies.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/031996-Video_shows_key_rol.html "Permalink to 031996-Video_shows_key_rol")
