---
layout: post
title: The Visitor Education Center At Long Marine Laboratory Answers To Commonly Asked Questions
author: Robert Irion
---

Q: Why does Long Marine Laboratory need a new Visitor Education  Center?

A: When UC Santa Cruz opened Long Marine Lab in 1978, its  directors chose to focus on public education as well as  groundbreaking research in the ocean sciences. This dual purpose  makes Long Marine Lab unique among marine-research facilities in  the state. Indeed, about 40,000 people visit the lab each year, many  of them students from throughout central California.

However, the popular education program, named "Window to  Discovery," has far outgrown the lab's existing facilities.  Instructors must decline many requests for on-site classes and  tours, and many programs occur in inadequate temporary structures.  Further, the shortage of space and resources forces the lab to  restrict its times for drop-in visitors to just eighteen hours per  week. The Visitor Education Center will solve many of these  problems.

Q: What facilities will the Visitor Education Center contain?

A: The 14,000-square-foot building will feature a central exhibit  hall with interactive displays and discovery labs; a classroom and an  orientation theater; teaching aquariums and numerous "touch tanks";  a modest auditorium; a book and gift shop; and office and support  space for the lab's administration, public education staff, and  volunteer docents. An adjacent structure will house a teaching  laboratory for university classes in marine biology. The lab's popular  blue-whale skeleton will occupy part of an outdoor courtyard; an  observation deck will overlook the ocean below. Trails for self-guided tours of nearby wetlands and tide pools will begin at the  Visitor Education Center. Docents will continue to offer tours of the  research areas.

Unlike most modern aquariums, the Visitor Education Center  will reflect the character of Long Marine Lab as a "field station" for  research in the ocean sciences. The building's exterior and interior  will emphasize the beauty of the site and will provide natural  extensions of the sights and sounds of the lab itself.

Q: How will the center benefit schoolchildren?

A: The Visitor Education Center will allow Long Marine Lab  instructors to work with about 25,000 students in grades K-12 each  year--more than double the current number. New exhibits will give  hands-on information about marine research, conservation, and  careers in the ocean sciences in ways appropriate to each age level.  Students will become part of the exhibits in the planned learning  labs as they use scientific equipment and study marine life in full  view of other visitors. "Window to Discovery" staff will enhance  their direct outreach to schools with visiting educational programs  and classroom curricula.

Q: How will the center benefit the general public?

A: Long Marine Lab's hours for drop-in visitors will increase to  10 a.m. to 5 p.m., six days per week. Existing small spaces for the  lab's aquarium, museum, and bookstore will greatly expand. Exciting  multimedia exhibits will guide visitors through different aspects of  the lab and Monterey Bay at their own pace. Bilingual signs and  displays will improve the lab's educational value for Spanish-speaking visitors. Finally, the auditorium will provide  needed space for evening scientific lectures and other group events.

Q: Where will the center be built?

A: UC Santa Cruz officials are working with representatives of  Wells Fargo Bank to obtain a parcel of land near the coastal bluff,  adjacent to existing Long Marine Lab buildings. This site offers the  most advantages for a public-education facility: ready access to  nature trails and the research portions of the lab, as well as  dramatic and unobstructed views of the ocean and the Monterey Bay  National Marine Sanctuary--a true "Window to Discovery."

Q: How does the center relate to Long Marine Lab's overall  expansion plans?

A: The Visitor Education Center has been an integral part of the  lab's expansion goals since formal master planning began in 1991. UC  Santa Cruz officials continue to believe that the site and its  adjacent properties provide enormous potential to anchor the  northern end of an impressive "research crescent" of marine-science  institutions around Monterey Bay. The envisioned "Coastal Marine  Research Center" includes the Long Marine Lab of UCSC's Institute of  Marine Sciences; the Visitor Education Center; the state Department  of Fish and Game's Oiled Wildlife Veterinary Care and Research  Center, now under construction; and federal agencies such as the  National Marine Fisheries Service and perhaps the U.S. Geological  Survey. All of these uses complement the interplay between  research and education that has been the hallmark of Long Marine  Lab.

Q: How much will the center cost, and who is paying for it?

A: The budget for constructing the Visitor Education Center,  purchasing equipment, and creating its exhibits is $4.4 million. Of  that total, the University of California is providing $500,000 for the  university teaching lab. The rest of the funds will come from private  donations from foundations, corporations, and individuals. To date,  the UC Santa Cruz Foundation and the Friends of Long Marine Lab have  raised more than half of the needed funds.

Major donors include the following:
* Wayne and Gladys Valley Foundation: $300,000
* A unitrust established by Zoe Ann Orr Marcus: $250,000
* David and Lucile Packard Foundation: $200,000 challenge

grant, matched by other gifts
* J. M. Long Foundation: $200,000
* Emmet T. Hooper and Leanore Theriot Hooper: $100,000
* A unitrust established by Paul and Anne Irwin: $100,000
* Robert Stephens and Julie Packard: $55,000
* Dean Witter Foundation: $50,000
* Moore Family Foundation: $50,000
* Coast Commercial Bank: $25,000
* Paul and Anne Levin: $25,000
* Frances B. McAllister: $25,000
* Miles and Garland Reiter: $25,000

Other funds come from supporters in the community and from  annual events sponsored by the Friends of Long Marine Lab, such as  the "Whale of an Auction," a gourmet dinner, and "Cheers! at the  Crow's Nest."

Q: Will it cost more to go to Long Marine Lab once the center is  open?

A: The cost of a visit to Long Marine Lab will remain low.  Visitors will pay nominal entry fees of about $4 for adults and $2  for students and senior citizens. Visits will be free for children age 5 and under, as well as for members of the Friends of Long  Marine Lab.

Q: Who is designing the center?

A: SRG Partnership, an architect/design group from Portland,  Oregon, is designing the Visitor Education Center with BIOS, an  exhibit design group from Seattle. This team collaborated on the  Oregon Coast Aquarium, the Oregon Institute of Marine Biology, and  the striking Mount St. Helens Visitors Center. The award-winning  landscape architectural and planning firm of Royston Hanamoto Alley  & Abbey is also part of the design team.

Q: When will the center open?

A: Long Marine Lab planners hope to start building the Visitor  Education Center in the summer of 1997. Construction should take  about one year.

Q: Where can I get more information?

A: For questions regarding the Visitor Education Center or other  aspects of Long Marine Lab's public education program, call (408) 459-4308. To join the Friends of Long Marine Lab, call (408) 459-3694. For general questions, call the lab's main number at  (408) 459-2883.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/10-96/101396-Fact_sheet_on_Long_.html "Permalink to 101396-Fact_sheet_on_Long_")
