---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Geologists Track The Restless Migration Of  Sand
author: [Erik Stokstad, Robert Irion]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The beaches may look stable, but California's  sandy shores are moving. Waves and currents drive sand down the  coast, affecting the fortunes of seaside communities. Sandy beaches  bring in tourist dollars and help prevent sea cliffs from eroding. But  sand can be a nuisance when it fills up harbors or disappears from  towns that depend on the grainy recreational resource.

Led by coastal geology expert Gary Griggs, a team of geologists  at the University of California, Santa Cruz, is clarifying the big  picture of sand movement just offshore. Sand grains, it seems,  travel along certain submarine routes, like cars following highways.  With nimble research boats, the team has mapped major  thoroughfares and parking lots for sand along the central California  coast. They are also using computers and a mathematical bag of  tricks. Two researchers have developed a novel way to decipher the  pathways of sand along the coast. Others think they know why a  popular beach appeared in Santa Cruz last year, only to vanish within  months.

Most of the sand near Santa Cruz comes down from the north,  swept by the oblique attack of waves in a process called littoral  drift. From streams all along the coast--and perhaps from huge  shoals outside San Francisco Bay--sand enters the offshore highway  and arrives at the northern end of Monterey Bay decades later. Griggs  estimates some 300,000 cubic yards pass by every year. "That's  about one dump truck full every 17 minutes," he says.

But beaches are interrupted by rocky headlands--roadblocks  for migrating sand. Postdoctoral researcher James Tait wanted to  know how sand moves around such obstacles. For three years, he and  doctoral candidate Roberto Anima darted in and out of rocky coves  and treacherous straits from Pacifica to Santa Cruz in the 43-foot  R/V David Johnston. With help from the U.S. Geological Survey, they  mapped the shallow coastal seafloor with sonar, a global positioning  system, and a depth recorder. "As a kid I wondered what the seafloor  would look like if you could let the water out for a while," says Tait,  who has sketched the underwater landscapes with pulses of sound.

Tait's team discovered large offshore areas devoid of sand.  Most sediment collects in submerged stream valleys carved out  when the sea level was lower, 10,000 to 20,000 years ago. Tait  suspects these valleys trap sediment until storms churn the water  enough to carry sand over the ancient stream banks. This happens  rapidly, but infrequently; big storms reach down 100 feet or more to  swirl sediments on the seafloor only about once every decade.

With UCSC seismologist Justin Revenaugh, Tait has also  adapted a mathematical tool from seismology to investigate the  transport of marine sand. Called "source-transport inversion," the  method separates complicated jumbles into simpler components. The  method is perfect for analyzing samples of sand grains--usually a  hodgepodge of shapes and colors, like a bowl of mixed nuts.

Tait and Revenaugh tested their technique by tracing the  sources and movement of sand in Monterey Bay. They based their  detective work on the unique blends of dense mineral grains,  including red garnet and dark green hornblende, that come from the  offshore highway north of Santa Cruz and the rivers flowing into the  bay. Into Revenaugh's computer went data from thousands of samples  analyzed by UC Berkeley scientists in the 1960s. For each sample the  source-transport inversion sorted out the mix of different  ingredients, indicating how much sand came from each source. The  results matched existing ideas of sediment transport: Most sand in  Monterey Bay comes from the northern coast, not local rivers.

Information about the natural movement of sediment also  helps geologists understand the delicate balance between erosion  and beach formation. Something upset this balance in 1995 when a  new beach, 50 feet wide and 1,000 feet long, appeared in Santa Cruz  between the Dream Inn and Lighthouse Point. The beach, instantly  popular with Santa Cruz residents, arrived during storms in January  but washed away by October. Doctoral candidate Laura Moore worked  with Carrie Randolph, an undergraduate, to uncover the source of the  sand and how it came to Santa Cruz.

The type of sand hints that the sediment originally came from  the north, as Tait's research would suggest. Once the sand rounded  Lighthouse Point, it parked just offshore. Moore and Randolph think  the beach formed when big storm waves, marching parallel to shore,  shoved the sand into the protected cove while eroding less sheltered  beaches. "That's very counterintuitive," says Moore. "The general rule  is that more energetic waves are more erosive." In other words,  storm waves should not create beaches. But the combination of a  protected cove within Monterey Bay, a source of sand offshore, and  powerful waves allowed this ideal surfing spot to form. During  calmer times, littoral drift gradually swept away the ephemeral  beach.

Looking at historic aerial photographs and weather records,  Moore and Randolph determined that only severe winter storms  deliver beaches to this area. The sandy attraction showed up last in  1983, but without knowing when the next big coastal storm will  arrive, says Moore, "it's tricky to predict when the beach will  return."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/030796-UCSC_geologists_tra.html "Permalink to 030796-UCSC_geologists_tra")
