---
layout: post
title: Dolphin Chronicles--a Tale Of A Scientist And Two Guests From The Sea
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Two Atlantic bottlenose dolphins named Echo and  Misha surfaced in Carol Howard's life in 1988. Two years later, after  the young dolphins completed a "science sabbatical" at the UC Santa  Cruz Long Marine Lab, researchers returned them to their home  waters in Tampa Bay, Florida. As dolphins tend to do, Echo and Misha  made a lasting impact on the people who worked with them-- especially Howard, who describes her time with "the boys" in her  first book, Dolphin Chronicles (Bantam Books, 1995).

Dolphin Chronicles is both a day-by-day account of those  whirlwind years and a careful look at issues that dolphins often  spark: communication among animals, the meaning of intelligence,  and whether to keep sentient beings in captivity. There are no easy  answers, and Howard doesn't try to supply them. Instead, she argues  that while we may never know what makes dolphins tick, there are  abundant reasons to continue exploring their complex society.

"Dolphins . . . inhabit a genuinely alien world," she writes.  "They are down-to-earth flesh-and-blood animals who nonetheless  seem to inspire some sense of the mythic, of the mystical in us.  Even if we never achieve the in-depth philosophical discussions with  them I once dreamed of, they may still provide us some perspective  on ourselves, some broader basis for self-knowledge."

Howard was a graduate student under UCSC biologist Kenneth  Norris, who devised the dolphin "sabbatical" before he retired in  1990\. The idea was a partial response to activists who want to free  all captive dolphins. Perhaps, Norris reasoned, scientists could  borrow wild dolphins for a short time, learn about them in the  controlled setting that science requires, then take them home and  make sure they didn't forget how to survive. The last step was  crucial: People had released many dolphins, but no one had watched  their progress in a systematic way.

Echo and Misha, it turned out, did fine. Researchers in Tampa  Bay have seen both dolphins dozens of times in the years since their  release. But Norris and Howard believe that the stresses on the  animals were too great--adjusting to captivity, learning new  behaviors, and readjusting to the wild, all in a short time. It may be  better, Howard says, for some dolphins to stay in captivity as  "emissaries" for scientists to study and for the public to appreciate.

Howard's Ph.D. research focused on Echo and Misha's ability to  echolocate--that is, to find objects by zinging them with sound  waves and analyzing the reflections. Some writers have proposed  that dolphins may use echolocation as a sort of language,  communicating with each other in "pictures" rather than words.  Howard disagrees with this notion, however aesthetically appealing  it may sound. Her videotaped studies suggest that only by being fully  aware of its own motions through the water can a dolphin make  sense of the signals it receives. To another dolphin, she suspects,  the information would be out of context. "I see no Star Trek-style  instantaneous translation devices in the offing," she concludes.

With an educational background in psychology, it was hard for  Howard to avoid endowing Echo and Misha with "personalities." But  they did exhibit distinct "dolphinalities." For example, Echo learned  tasks more quickly and regularly tested his handlers. Misha seemed  more thoughtful, but he performed more reliably once he learned the  ropes.

"If I were a male dolphin in Tampa Bay and could choose a  buddy to pair up with, I'd pick Misha in a flash," Howard writes. "I'd  bet on him as a steady, dependable, amiable, loyal, and sensible  lifelong companion. If, on the other hand, I wanted help figuring  something out, in some sort of problem-solving or brainstorming  session, I'd pick Echo." This capacity for individual differences  helped convince Howard that dolphins must learn and adapt in the  wild, and are indeed highly intelligent.

The book brims with vivid anecdotes, from Echo and Misha's  capture and transport (at a recent slide show, Howard called this the  "alien abduction sequence") to the high emotion of their release. The  dedication of Long Marine Lab's largely female crew, known as the  "dolphinettes," is evident throughout. That work ethic was essential;  the glamour of caring for dolphins lasted about as long as it took to  scrub their tanks (repeatedly), chop endless quantities of fish, and  get drenched on frigid days by seawater and dolphin snot.

Was it worth it? Howard's answer comes just three paragraphs  into her introduction: "Echo and Misha are a lot more than mere  research subjects to me. I didn't just collect data from them; I fed  them, played with them, talked to them, stroked them, swam with  them, spent hours just watching them, worried when they were sick  or not eating properly, and regaled friends and acquaintances with  pictures and tales of their exploits. I cried when they left. I still  miss them enormously."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/031196-A_tale_of_a_scienti.html "Permalink to 031196-A_tale_of_a_scienti")
