---
layout: post
title: Five Transmission Cycles And Marine-Mammal Surveys Completed In California Portion Of ATOC Project
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Marine biologists report progress in their  research to measure the effects of low-frequency sounds on marine  mammals. During the first five transmission cycles from the  California sound source in the Acoustic Thermometry of Ocean  Climate (ATOC) project, the researchers observed no dramatic  changes in marine-mammal behavior that would have required them  to stop the broadcasts.

Scientists have spotted large numbers of whales, dolphins, and  other animals near the sound source during aerial and boat-based  surveys, both when the source has been on and when it has been  silent. Although the scientists have detected no apparent changes in  behavior, any conclusions must await the collection of additional  data plus detailed analysis, which is now under way.

"Even though we got a late start, the research program is going  extremely well," says marine biologist Dan Costa of the University  of California, Santa Cruz, who leads ATOC's Marine Mammal Research  Program for California. "The exciting thing is that we have seen lots  of animals in the study area even during the winter months, when we  weren't sure what to expect."

The ATOC sound source is located on the Pioneer Seamount,  about 50 miles offshore from Half Moon Bay and 3,200 feet under the  ocean surface. A concern about this location was that scientists  might not see enough animals in the area to gauge whether the  sounds affected marine mammals in any way. However, ATOC  surveyors have seen numerous whales in the area, as well as  hundreds and sometimes thousands of Pacific whitesided dolphins.  The whales include dozens of sperm whales, a species of particular  interest because they dive to depths of thousands of feet, which  could take them near the sound source.

"If we continue to see large numbers of animals near the  Pioneer Seamount, we'll be in a better position to draw some  conclusions about their behaviors," Costa says.

Other species sighted to date include humpback whales (which  migrated out of the area after December), blue whales, fin whales,  gray whales, Baird's beaked whales, Cuvier's beaked whales, killer  whales (orcas), and pilot whales; Risso's dolphins, northern right  whale dolphins, and Dall's porpoises; northern elephant seals,  California sea lions, Steller sea lions, and northern fur seals; and  leatherback sea turtles.

The source has broadcast for two cycles at low power  (185 decibels at a distance of three feet from the source) and for three  cycles at full power (195 decibels, ten times louder at the same  distance). The intensity of the sounds, which are akin to low-pitched  rumbles, diminishes rapidly through the water with distance.  Transmission cycles at 185 dB took place on December 2-3 and  December 21-23; 195 dB transmission cycles occurred on December 28-January 1, January 4-6, and January 10-12.

During each cycle, the source turned on for twenty minutes  every four hours. It ramped up to full volume for five minutes at the  start of each twenty-minute broadcast. Each cycle lasted from one  to four days, depending on weather conditions.

The overall goal of the surveys was to ascertain the  distributions and abundances of animals near the sound source both  before and during the transmission cycles. The research team  surveyed the ocean mainly via airplane, which offered faster and  more complete coverage than a boat. The aerial surveyors are trained  marine-mammal observers from the Cascadia Research Collective,  under the direction of chief scientist John Calambokidis. The team  surveyed the area before each transmission cycle, then did another  flight 24 hours after the cycle began. Each survey covered a square  of ocean surface about 50 miles on a side, centered over the sound  source.

Both of the 185 dB broadcasts and the first two 195 dB  broadcasts included aerial observations at the moment the source  turned on. This let the team watch for any immediate changes in  animal behavior. Costa also led two boat-based observations, for the  first 185 dB cycle and the first 195 dB cycle.

Costa expects to use boat surveys in the future when  especially large groups of animals are sighted, and for planned  studies on elephant seals that will form a key component of the  Marine Mammal Research Program. This spring, the team will  transport several elephant seals near the sound source and monitor  their returns to shore at Ano Nuevo. Time-depth recorders attached  to the elephant seals will show whether the deep-diving animals  steer away from Pioneer Seamount or change the depth or duration  of their dives during their trips home.

Initial data from fourteen naturally migrating elephant seals,  each carrying a satellite tag that tracks position in the ocean, have  shown no dramatic changes in their routes to Ano Nuevo from the  Gulf of Alaska. Most of the animals passed directly over Pioneer  Seamount, even when the source was on.

Tentative plans for the next several months call for at least  one more transmission cycle at 195 dB in January, two in February,  and then at least two per month in March and April. ATOC's Marine  Mammal Research Program is scheduled to run at least through  September 1996.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/01-96/011796-Update_on_ATOC_Mari.html "Permalink to 011796-Update_on_ATOC_Mari")
