---
layout: post
title: Future Of The Regional Economy Will Be The Topic Of Forum May 15
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The future of the Monterey Bay economy will be  the focus of a public forum on Wednesday, May 15, from 8 a.m. until  noon. The event will bring together academic and corporate leaders  to discuss the region's economy and its evolving competitive  advantage.

"Monterey Bay Region: Innovation, Connection, and Growth" will  feature a keynote presentation by Lora Lee Martin, director of  regional economic development at the University of California, Santa  Cruz, and Gary Griggs, director of the Institute of Marine Sciences.

"The Monterey Bay region has a tremendous concentration of  teaching and research talent lining the bay," says Martin. "As we  move to a knowledge-based economy, this talent will help to  competitively position the region for the coming decades."

A panel discussion will follow with Mike Chihak, president of  the Monterey Business Council; Michael Dooley, professor of  economics at UCSC; Jim Gollub, principal of IDeA; Paul Lubeck,  professor of sociology at UCSC; Robert Shepherd, certified public  accountant; and moderator Donald Wittman, professor of economics  and chair of the Economics Board at UCSC. A roundtable discussion  with the audience will follow.

The forum will be held at the Aptos Seascape Golf Course at  610 Clubhouse Drive. Registration is $15 per person, including  breakfast. For registration information, call 425-7478.

The forum is sponsored by Democratic Management Services  Research and Consulting, Futures Network, Monterey Peninsula  Chamber of Commerce, Pajaro Valley Chamber of Commerce, Salinas  Chamber of Commerce, Santa Cruz Area Chamber of Commerce, Santa  Cruz Technology Alliance, and UC Santa Cruz. The forum is the first  event presented by the economics Advisory Board at UCSC.  Established in 1995, the Advisory Board is made up of economics  faculty and business representatives from the community who are  interested in economics. Community members include  representatives from Raytek, Smith Barney, Inc., Dean Witter  Reynolds, Inc., and Democratic Management Services Research and  Consulting.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/04-96/043096-Future_of_the_regio.html "Permalink to 043096-Future_of_the_regio")
