---
layout: post
title: Patrick Buchanan's Protectionist Policies Just The Latest In The Long-standing 'Buy American' Legacy
author: Barbara McKenna
---

**UC Santa Cruz Historian Examines The Long History Of The 'Buy American' Movement And Economic Nationalism In America**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The protectionist trade policies so central to the  platform of presidential hopeful Patrick Buchanan have appealed to  countless politicians before him. In fact, the concept is as old as the  United States itself. An early expression of economic nationalism,  still popular today, is the 'Buy American' campaign. According to  historian Dana Frank, "This country was born with a 'Buy American'  campaign--the Boston Tea Party--when colonists protested British  imports."

Frank, an associate professor of American studies at the  University of California, Santa Cruz, is writing a book on the history  of "Buy American" campaigns and economic nationalism in the U.S.  She recently received a $30,000 grant from the National Endowment  for the Humanities' Fellowships for College and University Teachers  program to work on her book, due to be completed next year.

From the Boston Tea Party to the Great Depression to the  present, Frank's book examines the ebb and flow of "Buy American"  campaigns and popular economic nationalism.

"Buy American sentiment has continued to come in and out of  vogue in the U.S. over the past two centuries, often initiated by  sectors of the economy with an interest in high tariffs," Frank notes.  "Others turned to Buy American campaigns as part of scapegoating  hostility toward immigrants and foreign workers. That sentiment  reached extreme levels in the 1970s when autoworkers in Detroit  smashed Japanese cars in frustration at their treatment by U.S.  automakers."

According to Frank, economic nationalism enjoyed widespread  popularity in the 1930s, climaxing with the Buy American Act of  1933\. Economic nationalism was adopted during that era for  divergent reasons. African Americans launched campaigns that  urged, "Don't buy where you can't work"; Chinese American campaigns  boycotted Japanese goods and promoted American products in  response to Japanese aggression in China; and, during World War II,  popular boycotts of Japanese and Nazi products were widespread.  -more- Buy American 2-2-2

Frank identifies the 1970s to the present as the next period of  popularity for Buy American agitation. "That's when strong trade  union-based 'Buy American' campaigns emerged, as well as  campaigns by national-level organizations such as Crafted With  Pride in U.S.A., Inc.," she notes. "Political campaigns at the federal  and state level were promoting the passage of laws requiring  domestic purchases in government procurement." Currently, Frank  says, "Popular debate on Buy American campaigns has reached new  levels of complexity in arguments over NAFTA and GATT."

Frank is the author of Purchasing Power: Consumer Organizing,  Gender, and the Seattle Labor Movement, 1919-1929 (Cambridge,  England, and New York: Cambridge University Press, 1994), which  won the Western History Association's W. Turrentine Jackson Prize.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/031496-Buchanan_policies_.html "Permalink to 031496-Buchanan_policies_")
