---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The men's soccer team, coached by Sean Sullivan and assistants Ashley Edgar and Paul David Seldis, ended their season at 15-5, the best record in school history.** The Slugs also had a record nine shutouts. "We accomplished all the goals we set for ourselves, says Sullivan. "The only one missing was an invitation to the national tournament. We're losing only three seniors, so we will be very strong in '97." The graduating seniors are Matt Rodkey and cocaptains Steve Thomas and Ryuji Ueda.  

**Bruce Bridgeman, professor of psychology and psychobiology, delivered the Karl and Charlotte Buehler lecture** at the University of Dresden, Germany, in October. The lecture was titled "Funktionale Dissociation der zwei Sehsysteme bei Menschen" (Functional Dissociation of the Two Visual Systems in Humans).  

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** continues on November 11 with a talk by James Der Derian of the Political Science Department at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst on the topic "Eyeing the Other: Technical Oversight, Simulated Foresight, and Theoretical Blindspots in the Infosphere"; and on November 18 with a presentation by David Kinsella of the Political Sciences Department at the University of Missouri, Columbia, on the topic "We Arm the World: Weapons Trade and Developing Countries." The colloquium is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call ext. 2833.   

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by W. Scott Haine from the History Department at Holy Names College on the topic "Sartre, de Beauvoir, and the Students: Paris Cafe Life and Radical Politics, 1930-1968" on November 13 in the Cowell Provost House. The session begins at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call ext. 4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-11-11/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 11-11-96")
