---
layout: post
title: Psychologist M. Brewster Smith Receives Lifetime Service  Award
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--M. Brewster Smith, professor emeritus of  psychology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has received  the first Lifetime Service Award bestowed by the Western  Psychological Association. The award recognizes Smith's  "distinguished contributions to the advancement of the science and  profession of psychology."

"Professor Smith brings to psychology a unique blend of social  concern, dedicated service, intelligent analysis of important  problems, and enthusiasm, not only for his fellow scientists, but for  all of humankind," wrote Robert Solso when he announced the award  in the association's newsletter. "This rare individual has been an  inspiration to countless young psychologists who have studied with  him and come under his influence directly, and to many more who  have read some of his immense collection of papers, books, and  articles."

A social psychologist, Smith retired from UCSC in 1988 but  continues to teach and do research. His 50-year career has focused  on the interplay of psychological and political processes. His  pioneering book Opinions and Personality (New York: Wiley, 1956),  coauthored with two colleagues at the Harvard Psychological Clinic,  describes people's deepest feelings and their views of politics and  society. Smith did groundbreaking work on the ways in which  people's opinions are influenced by their strategies for coping with  the world, with their social relations, and with their inner conflicts.  Most recently, Smith has drawn on psychological research to suggest  ways to reduce the threat of nuclear war.

Smith's career began at Harvard University, where he earned  his Ph.D. in 1947. He subsequently was on the faculty of Vassar  College, New York University, UC Berkeley, the University of Chicago,  and UCSC.

The WPA's Lifetime Service Award was created to recognize  members of the association who exemplify a lifelong record of  exceptional service to psychology and to the WPA. Smith's award  was presented April 12 during the association's annual spring  meeting in San Jose.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/05-96/051096-Psychologist_M_Brew.html "Permalink to 051096-Psychologist_M_Brew")
