---
layout: post
title: Astronomer Albert Whitford Of UC Santa Cruz To Receive  Prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Albert E. Whitford, astronomer emeritus at the  University of California Observatories/Lick Observatory and long  recognized as one of the world's preeminent astronomers, will  receive the 1996 Catherine Wolfe Bruce Medal from the  Astronomical Society of the Pacific (ASP) in honor of his lifetime  accomplishments.

Whitford, age 90, was director of Lick Observatory from 1958  to 1968 and remains a professor emeritus of astronomy and  astrophysics at UC Santa Cruz. He will receive the Bruce Medal at  the ASP's annual meeting, scheduled for June in Santa Clara.

One of astronomy's oldest awards, the Bruce Medal was  established by Catherine Wolfe Bruce of New York in 1898. The ASP  bestows it annually to recognize distinguished service to astronomy.  Its recipients form a roster of the century's greatest figures in the  field, such as Henry Norris Russell, Harlow Shapley, George Ellery  Hale, Edwin Hubble, and Fred Hoyle. Several Lick Observatory  astronomers have won the award, including Donald Osterbrock in  1991.

Whitford is best known for his pioneering work in  photoelectric photometry, which began with Joel Stebbins, also a  Bruce Medal recipient. Trained in laboratory physics, Whitford  greatly improved the sensitivity of photometers. This led to the  first precise measurements of the magnitudes and colors of faint  stars, clusters, and galaxies. The "Whitford Reddening Curve," which  quantifies the interstellar absorption of light, proved vital in  mapping the distribution of stars within our Milky Way. Whitford  also studied the structures and dynamics of the spherical blobs of  stars at the centers of galaxies, known as nuclear bulges.

Whitford played a key role in the growth of U.S. astronomy. He  chaired a 1953 conference that led to the national observatory  system, and he presided over a 1964 report from the National  Academy of Sciences that laid out the first of a series of ten-year  blueprints for the field.

Born in 1905 in Milton, Wisconsin, Whitford received a B.A.  from Milton College and an M.A. and Ph.D. in physics from the  University of Wisconsin. He worked at Wisconsin's Washburn  Observatory for 23 years, serving as its director from 1948 through  1958\. Since retiring from Lick Observatory in 1968, he has continued  to collaborate actively and publish papers with astronomers at the  UCO/Lick faculty offices at UCSC.

The ASP, the oldest national astronomy group, is the main U.S.  organization dedicated to astronomy education. It was established in  1889 by the first director of Lick Observatory and an Oakland  schoolteacher. Today, the ASP has more than 7,000 members, hailing  from all 50 states and about 70 other countries.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/04-96/040596-UCSC_astronomer_rec.html "Permalink to 040596-UCSC_astronomer_rec")
