---
layout: post
title: A Commencement-Related Human-Interest Story At UC Santa Cruz
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

As you plan your graduation coverage, consider the story of  Cynthia Slate, a re-entry student at the University of California,  Santa Cruz, who overcame a poor educational background and a  learning disability to earn a bachelor's degree with highest honors in  economics and environmental studies. Slate, 30, who grew up in  eastern Contra Costa County, was unable to read the words on her  high school diploma when she graduated from high school with a 1.81  GPA. Years later, she was diagnosed with dyslexia, a learning  disability that makes reading difficult. Slate enrolled at Los  Medanos Community College, and transferred to UCSC in fall of 1993.  With the assistance of the UCSC Disability Resource Center and  other campus resources, Slate was able to reach her true potential.  She was named a President's Undergraduate Fellow and a Merit  Scholar, completed her courses in winter quarter and is graduating  from UCSC's College Eight with college honors on Saturday, June 15.  She plans to pursue a master's degree in public policy at the  University of Washington.

When: Cynthia Slate graduates on Saturday, June 15. The  College Eight commencement ceremony will be held at 4 p.m. in the  College Eight plaza.

Who: Cynthia Slate

(510) 757-3585

Audrey Muir

Academic Preceptor

College Eight

UCSC

459-2025

Sharyn Martin

Learning Disability Program Coordinator

Disability Resource Center

UCSC

459-2089

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/06-96/061196-Dyslexic_UCSC_grad_.html "Permalink to 061196-Dyslexic_UCSC_grad_")
