---
layout: post
title: Parking Restrictions Planned On Mt. Hamilton Road During Peak Nights For Viewing Comet Hyakutake; No Public Programs At Lick Observatory
author: Robert Irion
---

**Telescopes Are Not Required To See The Comet, Which Should Be Easily  Visible To The Naked Eye**

MT. HAMILTON, CA--Public officials and law enforcement agencies  plan to forbid parking on roads leading to Lick Observatory on  several nights beginning Friday, March 22, to help prevent hazardous  traffic situations from developing during the close passage of Comet  Hyakutake.

Astronomers at Lick Observatory regret that there are no  public facilities available to view the comet from atop Mount  Hamilton. The narrow and winding Mt. Hamilton Road (State Highway  130) becomes a safety hazard if many spectators attempt to drive to  the summit at the same time. Nighttime traffic jams have occurred  on this road during other astronomical events, jeopardizing access  for emergency vehicles and endangering pedestrians who have  abandoned their cars.

The California Highway Patrol, in cooperation with Lick  Observatory, the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Department, Caltrans,  and other agencies, will restrict parking along Mt. Hamilton Road,  the upper portion of Quimby Road, and other county roads as  necessary to prevent hazards. Parking bans will be in force from  6 p.m. to 6 a.m. starting on March 22, and running at least through the  weekend.

Law enforcement officials will tow vehicles blocking traffic  lanes or left unattended on roadsides. If too many comet-watchers  attempt to drive to the observatory, authorities may close Mt.  Hamilton Road at Grant County Park. The park itself will not be open  after sunset.

Comet Hyakutake, expected to become the brightest comet  since 1976, should be visible to the naked eye and with binoculars  for several nights. Appearing as a bright fuzzball, perhaps brighter  than any star in the sky, the comet will pass near the Big Dipper and  the North Star as it approaches the sun. A faint tail may be visible  far from city lights.

Viewers will not need a telescope to see the comet,  astronomers expect. Indeed, the best tools for skygazers will be  their own eyes, a pair of binoculars, and the patience to view the  comet from a dark site in the early morning hours, when it will be  highest in the sky.

If roads are closed, officers will provide handouts explaining  the restrictions and directing people to other sites in the Bay Area  where public-viewing events for the comet are planned. As of this  date (March 15), those sites include:
* Foothill College Observatory. Observing sessions hosted by  the Peninsula Astronomical Society on March 22-25, 8-11 p.m., at  Parking Lot T, Foothill College, Moody Rd.-El Monte exit off Highway  280\. Information: (415) 949-7334.
* San Jose Astronomical Association. Public viewing from 7  p.m. until after midnight on March 22-23 at Houge Park in San Jose,  off Sunset Road near Camden and Bascom Avenues. Information:  (408) 559-1221.
* Minolta Planetarium, De Anza College. Planetarium show at  6:30 p.m. March 23, with a viewing session afterward. $4 for adults,  $3 for children. Off Stevens Creek Blvd. in Cupertino, at Parking Lot  E. Information: (408) 864-8814.
* Chabot Observatory and Science Center, Oakland. Nightly  planetarium shows at 7:30 p.m. March 22-30, followed by telescope  viewing. $5 for adults, $3 for children. 4917 Mountain Blvd., at  intersection of Highways 13 and 580, Oakland Hills. Information:  (510) 530-3480.
* Fremont Peak Observatory, Fremont Peak State Park.  Amateur astronomers will observe the comet on March 23 and  possibly on other nights. South of San Juan Bautista off Highway  156\. Information: (408) 623-2465.

At Lick Observatory, astronomer Hyron Spinrad of UC Berkeley  plans to observe Comet Hyakutake with a small telescope next to the  observatory's main research instrument, the 120-inch Shane  Telescope. Light gathered by the small telescope will feed into the  Hamilton Spectrograph, a sophisticated instrument beneath the  Shane Telescope that recently played a key role in discovering new  planets outside of our solar system.

Spinrad and postdoctoral researcher Michael Brown will study  gas flowing out of the comet as it nears the sun. They will focus on  charged particles of water and carbon monoxide that speed away  from the comet's nucleus as the sun heats it. The overall goal is to  determine how the sun's "solar wind" affects the region near the  comet's core.

Lick Observatory is an astronomical research facility operated  by the University of California Observatories. Its administrative  headquarters are on the UC Santa Cruz campus. The observatory's  visitors center is open to the public from 12:30 to 5 p.m. on  weekdays and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends. For information,  call (408) 274-5061.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/03-96/031596-No_public_programs_.html "Permalink to 031596-No_public_programs_")
