---
layout: post
title: New Cookbook Reveals The Secrets Of The Great Chefs Of Santa Cruz County And Benefits The Friends Of The UCSC Farm And Garden
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--From Bittersweet Bistro to The Shadowbrook,  recipes from some of the finest restaurants in Santa Cruz County  are featured in a new cookbook, Recipes from the Great Chefs of  Santa Cruz County. Whatever local specialties make your mouth  water--whether it's appetizers like poached trout and wild  mushrooms with watercress and radishes, or desserts like chocolate  raspberry revelation--you'll find them in this unique cookbook.

Chefs from eighteen of the county's premiere restaurants and  catering companies have generously contributed to the book, which  benefits the Friends of the UCSC Farm and Garden. Each chef has  provided a full menu of recipes, from appetizers and salads to  entrées and desserts, with an emphasis on seasonal produce.

Chefs at the following restaurants and caterers have  contributed:

Bittersweet Bistro Blacks Beach Cafe Cafe Emmanuelle Carniglia's on the Wharf Carried Away Catering Casablanca Feel Good Foods Gabriella Cafe Gayle's Bakery & Rosticceria India Joze O'Mei Restaurant Oswald Papa's Church Ristorante Avanti Sanderlings Restaurant The Shadowbrook Shepherd's Garden Seeds Theo's French Restaurant

This 125-page cookbook is spiral bound and lies flat for easy  use. More than 30 original drawings by local artist Margaret  Bonaccorso grace its pages, and color photographs taken at the Alan  Chadwick Garden at UCSC are on the covers. The books sell for  $19.95 and may be purchased at the ID Building at 1515 Pacific  Avenue in Santa Cruz.

Two receptions, featuring sample creations made by some of  the chefs who contributed to the cookbook, will also be held at the  ID Building. The events are scheduled for Monday, December 2, from 5 to 7 p.m., and one week later, Monday, December 9, from 5 to 7 p.m.

The cookbook may also be ordered by mail by sending a check  made payable to UC Regents to Friends of the Farm and Garden,  University of California, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064- 1077, Attn: Cookbook. For mail orders, please include $2.50 per book  for tax and shipping. Proceeds from book sales benefit the work of  the Friends of the Farm and Garden, including community education  in organic farming and gardening.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/11-96/111596-New_cookbook_benefi.html "Permalink to 111596-New_cookbook_benefi")
