---
layout: post
title: Awards and Honors
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Margaret Delaney,** professor of ocean sciences, was named a distinguished lecturer for 1997-98 by the Joint Oceanographic Institutions/U.S. Science Advisory Committee. Each year, JOI/USSAC selects six scientists to give academic talks around the country on research related to ocean drilling. Assistant professor of earth sciences **Andrew Fisher** holds the same prestigious lectureship this year; associate professor of earth sciences **James Zachos** was selected in 1993-94. Delaney sailed on two expeditions with the international Ocean Drilling Program, contributed to several others, and chaired the program's Ocean History Panel for three years. She will deliver a lecture titled "Nutrients and Ocean History: A Focus on Phosphorus."  

The **Performing Arts Center**, designed by architect Ralph Rapson of Minneapolis and opened in 1971, has received a 25-year merit award from the Minnesota chapter of the American Institute of Architects (AIA). The 25-year awards are bestowed by a number of AIA chapters to honor buildings that have "stood the test of time." Rapson, formerly chair of the Architecture Department at the University of Minnesota, is a distinguished architect best known for his acclaimed design of the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis.   

The Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS) recognized three UCSC undergraduates at its national conference, held recently in Los Angeles.

**Dynela Garcia,** a senior in biochemistry, was one of three recipients of the $1,250 SACNAS-Eli Lilly Scholarship, awarded to students who plan to pursue advanced degrees. Garcia, who aims for a career in biomedical research, worked with professor of chemistry Anthony Fink and will soon join the lab of professor of chemistry Phillip Crews.
**Yvonne Rodriguez,** a senior in earth sciences, received a $500 Vigil Poster Presentation Award, given to the four best undergraduate research posters at the meeting. Rodriguez prepared a poster titled "Trace Elements in Volcanic Rocks from the Izu Margin" with her adviser, earth sciences lecturer Alfred Hochstaedter.
**María Catalina,** a junior in community studies, prepared a poster of her research with associate professor of earth sciences Elise Knittle, titled "Experimental Characterization of the Molecular Structure and Healing Properties of a Clay Mineral." Cornell University chemist and ethnobotanist Eloy Rodriguez invited Catalina to publish her findings.

Both Rodriguez and Catalina are single mothers who live at UCSC's Family Student Housing.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/96-11-18/honors.htm "Permalink to Awards and Honors: 11-18-96")
