---
layout: post
title: State Schools Chief Delaine Eastin Visits Central Coast On Monday, May 20
author: Carrol Moran
---	

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Delaine Eastin, the state superintendent of public  instruction, will visit the Santa Cruz area on Monday, May 20, to  meet with participants in regional educational collaborations.  Eastin, an advocate of educational partnerships, will visit several  schools and will deliver a lunchtime speech titled "Working Together  for Our Children's Future" to education, community, and business  leaders.

Eastin's visit, which is sponsored by the Monterey Bay  Educational Consortium (MBEC), will give regional educators an  opportunity to showcase their programs and discuss the future of  educational collaborations with Eastin, says MBEC Coordinator  Carrol Moran.

"This visit is very much in the spirit of the consortium," says  Moran. "By combining our resources, we're able to bring more  attention to the range of impressive educational efforts in the  Monterey Bay region."

MBEC was established in 1994 with the support of UCSC  Chancellor Karl S. Pister to encourage collaborations among the  educational agencies of the Monterey Bay region, including the  University of California, Santa Cruz; California State University,  Monterey Bay; the four local community colleges; the county school  superintendents; and school district representatives. "Chancellor  Pister's dedication to MBEC has energized this region and helped to  bring Delaine Eastin here," says Moran.

Diane Siri, Santa Cruz County superintendent of schools, says  Eastin has been a strong supporter of educational partnerships. "As a  former businessperson, state legislator, and teacher, Delaine Eastin  has a unique combination of perspectives that gives her a passion to  move us forward," says Siri. "Educators are sometimes criticized as  living in a world that is insulated from other pressures, but her  experience has shown her that partnerships and collaborations are  essential."

Moran and Pister will accompany Eastin during her visit. A  schedule of events follows.

**Schedule of Events, Monday, May 20**

10:00 a.m. Santa Cruz High School, Auto Shop

415 Walnut Avenue, Santa Cruz

Welcome from Santa Cruz County Superintendent of  Schools Diane Siri, Santa Cruz City Superintendent of Schools Roy  Nelson, and Santa Cruz High School Principal George Perez.

Eastin will meet with students from high schools in  Santa Cruz County, Pajaro Valley Unified School District, and  Monterey County.

11:00 a.m. Live Oak School

1916 Capitola Road, Santa Cruz

Welcome from Live Oak School District Superintendent  Steve Herrington and Live Oak School Principal Sesario Escoto

Eastin will meet with participants in early literacy  programs and will observe teachers demonstrating Effective First  Teaching.

12:00 p.m. Luncheon at Aptos Seascape Golf Course Clubhouse

610 Clubhouse Drive, Aptos

12:30 p.m. Program begins

Opening remarks by Diane Siri

Presentation by business leader

Speech by Delaine Eastin entitled "Working Together for

Our Children's Future"

Questions

1:30 p.m. Media Availability

1:45 p.m. University Collaborations

Eastin will meet with representatives of UCSC and  California State University, Monterey Bay

3:00 p.m. Cabrillo College, Technology Lab

Eastin will visit Cabrillo College's new Technology Lab  and will meet with participants involved with several technology  collaborations. Discussion will also cover minority outreach,  scholarship, and bilingual teacher development programs, as well as  early childhood development.

5:00 p.m. Dinner at Chaminade Executive Conference Center with  the MBEC Executive Council

1 Chaminade Lane, Santa Cruz

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/95-96/05-96/050696-State_schools_chief.html "Permalink to 050696-State_schools_chief")
