---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"Democracy and Civil Society in South Africa: From Revolution to Multi-Ethnic Nation Building"** is the title of a talk by Ari Sitas, professor of sociology and dean of social sciences at the University of Natal at Durban (South Africa), on Tuesday, November 18, at 12:30 p.m. in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. He will be available at the Stevenson Coffee Shop after the talk to discuss research, field-study, and internship opportunities in South Africa and other South African states. Professor Sitas is an intellectual and activist with the African National Congress (ANC), president of the South African Sociological Association, and founder of the Congress of South African Writers. For more information or to set up an appointment to meet with Professor Sitas the morning of the 18th, call (408) 459-2833.

**Chinese journalist, activist, scholar, and Goldman Environmental Prize winner, Dai Qing,** will speak on "The Struggle for Democracy in China" on Friday, November 21, at 3:30 p.m. in Thimann 1. His talk is sponsored by the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies. For more information, call (408) 459-2833 or e-mail [global@cats.ucsc.edu][2].

**High school seniors are invited to participate in the Music Department's first national student string competition** to form a student resident string quartet. Each winner will receive a scholarship equal to the amount of four years of full in-state fees. Quartet members will participate in a number of performances and public concerts and will be given the opportunity to be coached by top-level professional players. The filing period for applications closes on November 30. For details on how to apply contact Rebecca Seeman.

**"Toxicology--Monitoring and Remediation"** is the title of a talk by Russell Flegel, professor of earth sciences, on Monday, November 17\. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled Ecosystem and Community Health; The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. 

**"Recollecting China: Bibliomania 1920-1949"** is the title of a presentation by Mary Scott, professor of humanities at San Francisco State University, on Wednesday, November 19, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided.

**"Interpreting the Interpreter: Kierkegaard on Religious Truth"** is the topic of a talk by associate professor of philosophy Robert Goff on Tuesday, November 18, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. Professor Goff will be drawing upon Kierkegaard for a little tour of the forms of self-deception involved in the field of religious knowledge and experience. The talk is part of a bag-lunch series, titled Interpretations of God, sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. Hot drinks will be provided.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-11-17/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 11-17-97")
