---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Would your child get a kick out of a pregame clinic with a UCSC coach?** A chance to meet college athletes? Attend UCSC sports events with other kids? Sounds like fun? Then sign up your son or daughter for the **Junior Slug Club.** Kids will receive a Junior Slug t-shirt, a membership card, and free admission to games and other special events throughout the year. The cost is $10 per child. Applications are available at OPERS East and West Field Houses, at all home games, or by calling (408) 459-2531.

**The International Women's Coffee Hours are open to all campus and community women.** 

**"Environmental Inequalities"** is the title of a presentation by associate professor of sociology Andrew Szasz on Monday, November 10. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled "Ecosystem and Community Health." The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. 

**"Framing the American Indian Movement: Representations of Indian Radicalism in U.S. Film"** is the title of a presentation by T. V. Reed, associate professor of English and American studies at Washington State University, on Wednesday, November 12, at noon in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. Reed, a resident scholar this fall, received his Ph.D. in history of consciousness from UCSC in 1986. The presentation is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided. 

**What Comes After Progress?** is the title of a conference aimed at tackling questions like: What does history do if it does not progress? What moves history and what does it move? How can history be dynamically conceived without ends or end? The conference will take place Friday and Saturday, November 14 and 15, Room 159, Kresge College. UCSC faculty members Robert Berkhofer and Neferti Tadiar will be joined by colleagues from Wesleyan, Stanford, Princeton, Rice, Wisconsin, and Johns Hopkins Universities. The conference is free and open to the public. 

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-11-10/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 11-10-97")
