---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Join the Friends of the UCSC Library for the annual Dickens Holiday Evening **at 4 p.m. on Friday, December 12, in the McHenry Library foyer. The gathering features music, food, and holiday items for sale. It is free and open to the public and children are welcome. This event is handicapped accessible. For more information, call (408) 459-5870.

**Join the Friends of Long Marine Lab in a celebration for LML's first book release and docent artwork.** A reception and book signing will take place on Saturday, December 13, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Long Marine Lab's aquarium and book and gift shop. Docents will lead tours of the marine- mammal research area, aquarium, and touch pools between 1 and 4 p.m. For more information, contact Sonia Deetz at (408) 459-4568.

**An updated Guide to Editorial Style at the University of California, Santa Cruz,** is posted on the Web. The editorial style guide is useful to all campus units preparing printed or online communications. It establishes a consistent editorial style for the campus and answers some frequently asked questions about general editorial usage and style. A list of further reference sources is appended. 

**The UC Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation (IGCC) sponsors faculty and graduate students** through an annual grant and fellowship competition. Projects must be linked to international outcomes or have international consequences. Proposals are being accepted for research and research conference grants, teaching grants, standard dissertation fellowships, IGCC/MacArthur dissertation fellowships, and IGCC/UCDC fellowships in foreign policy studies. The deadline for applications is February 2. For more information, contact IGCC, Campus Programs, 9500 Gilman Drive, Dept. 0518, UCSD, La Jolla, CA 92093-0518, (619) 534-7224.

**Reminder:** **Campus holiday toy drives are under way**. The UCSC Fire Department is collecting new, unwrapped toys to be distributed local, needy children during the holiday season. Toys can be dropped off at the campus Fire Station or Police Station in the toy barrels during regular business hours prior to December 22. For information or toy pickup, call Tim Santos at 459-3473. The Women In Management Network (WIMN) is collecting gifts for migrant/low- income children in Santa Cruz County. WIMN works with community agencies to develop a list of children living in migrant farm camps. Each child is asked to request a specific gift--a toy or a much-needed item like a winter jacket or a watch--and then the request is matched with a donor. For further information, contact Jeanne Gray.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-12-08/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 12-08-97")
