---
layout: post
title: Attacks On Ebonics Overlook The Facts Of Language
author: Barbara McKenna
---

**Nature Magazine Publishes Commentary By Linguist That Shows Ebonics Is A Linguistically Sound Dialect**

Editors: Below is a commentary piece written by Geoffrey K. Pullum,  professor of linguistics at the University of California, Santa Cruz, on  both the decision by the Oakland school board to recognize Ebonics as  a language of its students and the ensuing reactions in the media.  Pullum's piece demonstrates that African-American English is a  dialect of English with its own grammatical rules, no different from a  dialect of, for example, Arabic or Russian. Pullum also addresses the  practical issues of teaching students who speak diverse dialects and  asks what the implications are of reactions toward the Oakland school  board's decision.

The piece is reproduced below as it appeared in the  commentary section of Nature on March 27, 1997, and may be  reproduced as is with credit given to Nature. The main text is 1,900  words; the table is 275 words. A shorter version may be available. To  reproduce the piece or discuss producing a shorter version, contact  Barbara McKenna at 408/459-2495; mckenna@ua.ucsc.edu. Pullum  may be reached at 408/425-4796 (7-10 a.m., p.s.t.) or 408/459-4705; pullum@cats.ucsc.edu.

Geoffrey K. Pullum is a linguist specializing in the study of  English, and has published widely on the scientific study of language.  Born in Scotland in 1945, he holds a B.A. in language from the  University of York and a Ph.D. in general linguistics from the  University of London. He has taught at University College London, the  University of Washington, and Stanford University, and was a Fellow  of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in  Stanford, Calif., during 1990-91. Since 1981 he has worked at the  University of California, Santa Cruz, where he is a professor of  linguistics. He has published a dozen books and more than 150  technical articles. His book, The Great Eskimo Vocabulary Hoax  (1991), is a collection of more than 20 essays on language including  his attack on the English-Only movement--"Here come the linguistic  fascists"--and the title essay, in which Pullum debunks the myth that  Eskimos have vast numbers of words for snow. He will spend the  second half of 1997 at the University of Queensland in Australia  working with grammarian Rodney Huddleston on a major reference  work for Cambridge University Press, "The Cambridge Grammar of  English."

**Language That Dare Not Speak Its Name**

Proposals by a school board in California to recognize the dialect used by  most of its pupils unleashed a ferocious media attack. Why did the press  get things so wrong, and why were the proposals so virulently ridiculed?

Geoffrey K. Pullum

Every columnist in the English-speaking press seems to have had a say  about last December's resolution by the governing board of the Oakland  Unified School District in California. The board's proposal was to  recognize the native tongue of most of its pupils as a language, which  triggered an astonishingly ferocious media attack. But little was heard in  the press of the factual matters about language and learning that  underlie the controversy.

The *New York Times*(1) (echoed by the *Economist*(2)) reported  that the board declared that black slang is a distinct language. The board  did nothing of the kind. Slang, in any language, consists of a finite list of  words or idiomatic phrases, highly vivid and informal, in the most casual  stratum of its lexicon. The resolution neither stated nor implied an  interest in the ephemera of street slang. It was about a perfectly  ordinary variety of English spoken by a large and diverse population of  Americans of African descent, by no means all of whom are slang-users.

The board mentioned several names for this language, one of  which came to dominate the headlines: Ebonics, introduced in 1975 by  the African-American scholar Robert L. Williams(3). This term's blend of  "ebony" and "phonics" suggests confusion: phonics is a literacy teaching  method, not a language, and racial characteristics like ebony skin do not  correlate with linguistic boundaries, as has long been known.(4) The  misbegotten name was a public relations disaster, lending itself to  endless puns and perversions (such as rhetorical questions about  whether Jewish speakers of English would declare a new language called  "Hebonics," and so on).

Much ink was wasted on the question of whether the speech of  African Americans should be classified as a language separate from  English. Defining a language is not a trivial problem, especially as  political considerations are often involved. For example, what was once a  single language called Serbo-Croat is being split into three separate  languages (Serbian, Croatian, and Bosnian) to serve political  constituencies. And though one standard source recognizes more than 15  separate Romance languages in Italy, another recognizes just three.

But essentially all linguists agree that what the Oakland board was  dealing with is a dialect of English. I will refer to it as African-American  English (AAE)--though of course it is not spoken by all African- Americans; many speak only Standard English. The general public seems  unaware that AAE is regular, stable, and governed by rules of grammar  and pronunciation that are as consistent as those of any other spoken  language. It differs strikingly from the standard dialect, but there is no  more reason for calling it bad Standard English than there is for  dismissing western dialects of English as bad eastern speech, or the  reverse.

Yet AAE is constantly described as if it were English with mistakes  and omissions. For example, it is alleged that the copula (am, are, is, etc.)  is omitted in AAE--carelessly left out, critics seem to imply--or  incorrectly used in the uninflected form "be." This is a jumble of  falsehoods. The rules regarding the AAE copula are quite detailed and  specific. If it bears stress, as it always does at the end of a phrase, it  must be pronounced; thus it is obligatory in "Couldn't nobody say what  color he is," meaning "Nobody could say what color he is" (examples in  this paragraph are from the utterances of Larry, a speaker studied by  William Labov(5)). If the copula is negated, it cannot be omitted; it is  pronounced "ain't," as in "You ain't goin' to no heaven" ("You aren't going  to any heaven"). There is a special habitual aspect that standard English  lacks, and for this "be" is used and must never be omitted; "they be  sayin' " means "they habitually say." The copula is also obligatory when  it is in the past tense. Only when the AAE copula is not marking habitual  aspect, not negated, not stressed, and in the present tense can it be  unpronounced ("he good" means "he's good"). Russian, Hungarian, and  other languages have a very similar rule (see box).

Something similar is true of the multiple marking of negation,  misleadingly termed "double negation," and treated as an illogicality.  This feature is also found in Romance languages. There is a direct  analogy between AAE "Ain't nobody called" with the equivalent Italian  "Non ha telefonata nessuno," literally "not has telephoned no one." Both  mean "No one has telephoned." It is a rule in both languages that under  certain conditions indefinite words with meanings like "someone" or  "anyone" "must" be replaced by their negative counterparts when they  occur in a negated clause. No grammatical or logical mistakes are  involved; multiple negation marking is a grammatical requirement like  number or gender agreement.

Having known such facts for decades, linguists were dismayed to  see writers of all persuasions (several of them black) falling over each  other to publish angry and offensive attacks on AAE. Confusing lexicon  with syntax, accent with dialect, difference with deficiency, and  grammar with morality, they clarified little except the deep hostility and  contempt whites feel for the way blacks speak (the patois of America's  meanest streets, columnist George Will called it(6), as if AAE could only  be spoken in slums) and the deep shame felt by Americans of African  descent for speaking that way (former Black Panther party official  Eldridge Cleaver(7) compared acknowledging AAE with condoning  cannibalism).

Vying with each other to evince their fury at AAE, columnists both  black and white ignored the genuine issues of educational policy that  had motivated the Oakland school board. One persistent confusion was  perhaps stimulated by an ambiguity in English: instruction in French has  two meanings: instruction on how to speak French and instruction given  via the medium of French. The press never figured out the difference.  The Oakland board members talked about using AAE to deliver  instruction; but this was discussed in editorials as if the proposal had  been to make AAE a school subject. The board never suggested adding  AAE to the curriculum. Its plan was to acknowledge that many Oakland  schoolchildren speak AAE, to alert teachers to the implications this might  have, and to contrast AAE with standard English in language classes, but  not to hold classes on how to speak AAE. (The whole point, after all, is  that no such classes are necessary, since the children arrive speaking it.)  The need to direct children toward a command of standard English was a  paramount concern.

Oakland faces an issue similar to the dilemma of, for example, a  Norwegian school with many Swedish-speaking students. Swedish and  Norwegian are similar enough that both could be considered dialects of a  single language. They are mutually intelligible for adults, but different  enough to cause some learning difficulties for a monolingual Swedish  child confronting a Norwegian-speaking teacher for the first time. So  would it be better to start the Swedish children off with a teacher who  acknowledges the Swedes' linguistic background and explains things in  Swedish where necessary? Or should one trust to the total immersion  philosophy and plunge the students into a Norwegian-only environment  from day one?

These are empirical questions. And for some time there has been  available empirical evidence that alternatives to total immersion may  work better. Teaching children to read first in their nonstandard  Swedish dialect and then transitioning them to standard Swedish speeds  and improves the acquisition of reading skills(8). African-American  college students in Chicago who received instruction concerning the  contrasts between AAE and Standard English grammar showed  improved Standard English writing skills as compared to a control  group(9). And in Oakland itself it was found nearly 25 years ago that  teachers who condemned AAE pronunciations and interpreted them as  reading errors got the worst results in teaching black children to read,  while teachers who used AAE creatively in the classroom got the best  results(10). These and other results in the education literature (cited by  Stanford AAE researcher John Rickford; see <http://www-> leland.stanford.edu/~rickford/ebonics) suggest that the Oakland school  board's policy decision had some clear motivation and scientific support.

The board's reward, however, was a month of unrelenting ridicule,  needling, and abuse from politicians, poets, and pundits in editorials,  features, talk shows, news programmes, speeches, and government  statements (the U.S. Department of Education pointedly announced that  no Federal bilingual education funds would be spent on AAE).

The horror with which Americans react to the idea of using AAE in  the classroom reveals a lot about the prejudice still targeted on  America's black citizens, whose variety of English is decried as if it were  some repellent disease (the *Economist* actually entitled its article "the  Ebonics virus"). Educational conservatives often deny that prejudice is  involved, dismissing linguists' objective attitude toward nonstandard  dialects as if it were just left-wing propaganda. But it is not. Even  conservative linguists acknowledge the facts mentioned above. When the  Linguistic Society of America voted in January on a resolution in support  of the Oakland school board, the vote was unanimous.

Linguists agree that standard English has prestige and AAE does  not. They merely note that this is not because of the grammar of AAE.  Grammar does not underpin social distinctions or justify morally-tinged  condemnation of nonstandard dialects. AAE has nothing inherently  wrong with it as a language; it is an accident of history that it is not the  standard language of the USA. Standard English lacks multiple negation  marking, but has syllable-final consonant clusters and interdental  fricative consonants. In Italy the facts are the reverse: standard Italian  lacks syllable-final consonant clusters and interdental fricative  consonants but exhibits multiple negation marking, exactly as in AAE.

But the feeding frenzy in the press over the Oakland resolution  alarmed enough parents that, fearing linguistic ghettoization of their  children, they pressed the school board to reconsider. And so on January  15 the board revised its statement, dropping the reference to AAE as the  primary language of many of its schoolchildren, and the idea of using  that language as a medium of instruction. Yet it retained some misguided  references to alleged African origins of AAE (the dialect did not originate  in Africa, and shows few clear signs of any influence the original African  languages of slaves may have had on its early history). Carefully saving  some Afrocentric bathwater, the board publically threw out the baby of  a sensible change in language policy.

However, the Oakland school system is apparently still intent on  using AAE to assist the learning of Standard English, despite the board's  apparent backdown. This should not be surprising. Several other school  districts in California and elsewhere have long operated such programs.  And of course, teachers have some discretion, and many Oakland  teachers are African Americans who speak AAE natively; it would be  difficult to police classrooms tightly enough to prevent them from using  their native tongue when speaking all day to children who share it.

African-American English will continue to be heard in Oakland's  classrooms, just as German and Chinese accents will continue to be heard  in the physics lecture halls at the University of California campus just up  the road in Berkeley. In practice it will matter very little whether  official policies (or newspaper columnists) laud or deplore the linguistic  diversity of which America sometimes seems so ashamed. 

**Expression of the copula in three types of natural language**

African-American English (AAE) is dismissed as bad English because the  speakers sometimes omit the copula from predicative clauses. But this is  not random carelessness. AAE exemplifies a widely attested grammatical  pattern: the copula is always expressed if emphasized, negated, in the  past tense, marking the habitual aspect, or stranded (at the end of a  clause, as in "I don't know who he is"). A similar pattern is found in  many languages in the Afroasiatic, Indo-European, Niger-Congo, and  Uralic families. (These families are not known to be related, so the  similarities are typological rather than traceable to common origins.)  Standard English shows a different pattern, rather like Turkish, where  the present-tense copula is not completely omitted but is radically  reduced in pronunciation (in Turkish, to a suffix, and in English, to a  single consonant, as in "He's tall"). In a third group of languages the  copula is always overtly expressed.

Zero copula languages (present-tense copula unexpressed under certain grammatical  conditions) African-American English unexpressed in nonemphatic nonhabitual

(Indo-European) present affirmative when not stranded

Arabic (Afroasiatic) unexpressed in nonemphatic present affirmative

Hungarian (Uralic) unexpressed in third-person present indicative affirmative

Russian (Indo-European) unexpressed in nonemphatic nonexistential present indicative affirmative

Swahili (Niger-Congo) unexpressed in nonemphatic present affirmative Variable copula languages (present-tense copula amalgamates with adjacent word) Standard English reduced to single consonant in colloquial

(Indo-European) nonemphatic affirmative present tense

Turkish (Altaic) reduced to suffix in present tense Overt copula languages (copula always overtly expressed as a syntactically independent word) French, German, Italian, Spanish (Indo-European), Abkhaz (Northwest Caucasian), Japanese (Japanese-Ryukyuan), etc.

This commentary originally appeared in *Nature* magazine on Thursday,  March 27, 1997.

1\. New York Times, 24 December 1996 
2\. Economist, 4-10 January 1997 
3\. Williams, R. L. Ebonics: The True Language of Black Folks (Institute of  Black Studies, St Louis, 1975). 
4\. Boas, F. Introduction. Handbook of American Indian Languages  (Government Printing Office, Washington DC, 1911) 
5\. Labov, W. "The logic of nonstandard English" in Language and Social  Context (ed. Giglioli, P.) 179-215 (Penguin, Harmondsworth, 1972) 
6\. Will, G. "58 boys and the larger scheme of things," San Francisco  Chronicle, 1 January 1997 
7\. Cleaver, E. Los Angeles Times, January 31, 1997 
8\. Osterberg, T. Bilingualism and the First School Language (Vsterbottens  Trycheri, Ume, 1961) 
9\. Taylor, H. Standard English, Black English, and Bidialectalism (Peter  Lang, New York, 1989) 
10\. Piestrup, A. M. Black Dialect Interference and Accommodation of  Reading Instruction in First Grade (Monographs of the Language  Behavior Research Laboratory 4, University of California, Berkeley,  1973)

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/03-97/032797-UCSC_linguist_publi.html "Permalink to 032797-UCSC_linguist_publi")
