---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Nominations for three open Staff Advisory Board positions are due by April 30.** Board members will serve two-year terms beginning July 1\. Nominees must be staff members who are not represented by an exclusive bargaining agent. For a nomination form or for more information, contact Jo Ann McFarland at (408) 459-3260 or joann@cats.ucsc.edu. 

**Gateway to Effective Learning: Designing & Restructuring Courses for Higher Education** is the title of a live satellite teleconference on Thursday, April 17, from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Science Library Instruction Room. A panel of experts will share how they use the Web in college teaching and learning. Seating will be limited, but a videotape of the teleconference will be produced and at a future date be made available in the library's Media Center. The teleconference can also be seen on UCSC cable channel 48\. Contact Sandy Shaffer at (408) 459-5145 or sshaffer@cats.ucsc.edu if you need additional information.

**French Identity & Its Discontents: Nationalism, Colonialism & Race** is the title of a conference to be held Friday and Saturday, April 18 and 19, at Oakes College. The conference will bring together literary critics, historians, and art historians from UCSC, other UC campuses, and universities in Texas, New York, Ohio, and Sussex, England, to analyze the changing nature of Frenchness and the implications of France's own culture wars for the future not only of France, but all nations struggling to fashion a multicultural national identity. The keynote address, by Edouard Glissant, one of Martinique's leading writers and a professor at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, will be given on April 18 at 7 p.m. in Oakes 105. The conference, sponsored by the UC Humanities Research Institute, the Center for Cultural Studies, and UCSC's French Studies, is free and open to the public. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**The Cossack Movement and the Russian State, 1990-96,** is the title of a talk by Roman Laba, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, on April 14. The presentation is part of the Spring Colloquium on International, Global, and Comparative Issues, sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. The colloquia are held on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in 134 Cowell College. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**The Color of Privilege: Three Blasphemies on Race & Feminism** is the topic of a presentation by Aida Hurtado, associate professor of psychology, on Monday, April 14, from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in the Silverman Conference Room at Stevenson College. For more information, call (408) 459-2831.

**On Bowing, "Flexibility," and the Construction of Chinese Buddhist Bodies** is the title of a talk by Raoul Birnbaum, associate professor of art history, on Monday, April 14, from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 261 of Social Sciences 1. The presentation is part of the Anthropology Department Spring Colloquium Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2380.

**Liberation Aesthetics and Canon Construction in Contemporary World Literature** is the title of a talk by William Slaymaker of the English Department at Wayne State College, Nebraska, on Wednesday, April 16, in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Fishing for Solutions: Human Causes of Declining Steelhead Populations** is the subject of a presentation by Anne Mullan, a doctoral student in environmental studies, on Wednesday, April 16. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. All seminars are held at 4 p.m. in Room 148, Porter College. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Nietzsche's Reception in France since 1960** is the topic of a presentation by Eric Blondel, a noted Nietzsche scholar and a professor of philosophy at the University of Paris, on Wednesday, April 16, at 3:30 p.m. in Kresge 159. The talk is cosponsored by the Philosophy Department and the Center for Cultural Studies.

**Borderlands Culture and Tradition: A Reading from Canicula: Snapshots of a Girlhood en la Frontera** is the title of a presentation on Thursday, April 17, by Norma Cantu, professor of English and writing at Texas A&M International University. Her talk is part of the Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms." The colloquia are held in the Merrill Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m. Presentations are followed by discussion and refreshments.

**The Three Marys--The Sacred Authority of the Dispossessed** is the title of a talk on Thursday, April 17, by Lynn Westerkamp, associate professor of history, as part of a bag-lunch series titled "Blessed Are the Poor. . . "--Religion and the Dispossessed, sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. Westerkamp's talk will take place from noon to 1 p.m. in the Cowell College Conference Room. Hot drinks will be provided. For more information, call (408) 423-8532.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-04-14/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 04-14-97")
