---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Crafts and artwork by staff members** are needed for a Staff Art and Craft Show to be held in May as part of celebrating UC Santa Cruz and the inauguration of Chancellor Greenwood. The show, presented by the Staff Advisory Board, opens at the Women's Center on Friday, May 9th, in conjunction with an ice cream social, from 3 to 5 p.m. The show will continue through May 16th. To submit work, or for more information, contact Marcia Levitsky, at (408) 459-4691 or marcia@cats.ucsc.edu, or Deborah McEuen, at (408) 459-5718 or dlmceuen@cats.ucsc.edu.

**Elliot Aronson,** research professor in psychology, was invited, as one of the "nine most eminent living pioneers in experimental social psychology," to participate in a conference at Yosemite in March titled "Reflections on 100 Years of Experimental Social Psychology."

**The Transfer of Hong Kong to China** is the topic of a presentation by K. C. Fung, associate professor of economics, on Tuesday, April 8 at 7 p.m. in the Student Commons (Red) Building at College Eight.

**Why Fisheries Collapse and What Can Be Done about It** is the subject of a presentation by Marc Mangel, professor of environmental studies, on Wednesday, April 9. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. All seminars are held at 4 p.m. in Room 148, Porter College. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**The Passions and Aesthetic Intelligibility** is the title of a presentation by Philip Fisher, professor of English and American literature at Harvard University, on Wednesday, April 9, in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Thinking in an Emergency** is the title of a talk by Elaine Scarry, professor of English at Harvard University, on Wednesday, April 9, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Cartohistographia; Continente de Una Voz** is the title of a talk by Elba Sanchez, lecturer in Spanish for Spanish speakers, on April 10. Her talk opens the Chicano/Latino Research Center's 1997 Spring Colloquium Series, which is focused on "Chicana Feminisms." The colloquia are held on Thursday afternoons at 4 p.m. in the Baobab Lounge at Merrill College. Presentations are followed by discussion and refreshments. For more information, contact Aida Hurtado at (408) 459-3862 or aida@cats.ucsc.edu.

**A special gardening workshop for those with small gardens** will take place on Saturday, April 12, from 10 a.m. to noon at the Louise Cain Gatehouse at the Farm. The workshop will cover the basics of container gardening, bio-intensive soil preparation to make the most of what you've got, fertility management for small gardens, how to utilize shady and vertical spaces, ideas about multiple-use plants that are appropriate for small areas, and more. A $5 donation is requested. Participants are encouraged to bring questions and any seeds or plants they want to share with other gardeners. Plan to get dirty. For more information, call (408) 459-3376 or 459-3240.

**Catherine Soussloff,** associate professor of art history and author of _The Absolute Artist: The Historiography of a Concept,_ will give a book talk and signing on Sunday, April 13, at 3 p.m. at the Museum of Art and History, located at 705 Front Street in Santa Cruz.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-04-07/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 04-07-97")
