---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"The Monterey National Marine Sanctuary on the Web"** is the subject of a discussion and demonstration led by Aaron King of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on Wednesday, January 15, from 2 to 3 p.m. in the Science Library Instruction Room. Faculty, students, and researchers interested in information about the marine sanctuary or the process of developing content for a comprehensive Web site are invited to attend.

**"Work Avoidance: Slapstick, Laziness, and Marcel Duchamp's Readymades"** is the topic of a talk by Helen Molesworth, a candidate for assistant professor of art history, on Monday, January 13, at 2 p.m. in the Baskin Visual Arts Seminar Room. The talk is open to the campus community. For more information, call (408) 459-4564.

**The Electro-Mechanical Ballet and Other Close Encounters** is the title of a multimedia exhibit by assistant professor of art Elizabeth Stephens on display in the Porter College Faculty Gallery through February 7. The gallery is open Tuesday-Friday from 1 to 5 p.m. A public reception will be held on January 15 from 5 to 7 p.m.

**An information session for faculty and staff considering applying for Instructional Improvement Grants** will be held on Tuesday, January 14, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Porter Fireside Lounge. Members of the Committee on Teaching and a variety of staff who support the program will be in attendance to discuss the grants and answer questions. The deadline for applications for the larger grants is January 31. For more information, contact eileent@cats.ucsc.edu.

**Paula Powell, African American Student Life director,** will be the keynote speaker for the NAACP-Santa Cruz Martin Luther King Day dinner on Saturday, January 18, at Adolph's restaurant in Santa Cruz. 

**Fair Use Guidelines for Educational Multimedia: The Final Document and Its Implementation is the subject of a live teleconference** on February 20 from 10 a.m. to noon in Applied Sciences 156. Participants will be able to get answers to their questions from those who developed the guidelines and from educators who are already implementing them. Seating will be limited, but a videotape of the teleconference will be produced and at a future date be made available in the University Library's Media Center. This PBS teleconference is sponsored by University Library's Media Services.  If you would like to attend the videoconference, contact Sandy Shaffer at (408) 459-5145.

**Cowell College has an opening for provost beginning with the 1997-98 academic year.** Candidates must be tenured members of the UCSC faculty, have a record of sustained excellence in scholarship and teaching, and have proven leadership qualities. Administrative knowledge or experience is preferred. The provost is the academic leader of the college and provides the effective leadership conducive to the creation of a stimulating educational environment for the faculty, students, and staff in the college. The final filing date for applications is January 31. For a complete job description and more information on how to apply, contact Academic Human Resources at (408) 459-4300.

**The Stevenson Global Security Colloquium** resumes for winter quarter on January 13 with a talk by assistant professor of politics Ronnie Lipschutz on the topic "Global Civil Society and Global Governance in a Fragmenting World." The colloquium is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 110, Social Sciences 1. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-01-13/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 97-01-13")
