---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Beginning UNIX, Pine, Eudora, HTML, Word, and Excel are just a few of the short noncredit computing-related classes CATS is offering** fall quarter. All at no charge to campus students, staff, and faculty. Call or stop by the Information Resource Center at (408) 459-4357 (50 Communications Building) to obtain more information.

**Celebrate Family Week continues** with Family Night at the College Eight/Oakes Dining Hall on Thursday, October 23, 5-7 p.m. Children under 12 eat free. There will be music and a clown.

**Join Chancellor Greenwood in attending an open house hosted by the UCSC Conference and Summer Housing Office** on Thursday, October 23, 3:30-6 p.m. at their new location at 725 Front Street, Suite 201, next to the Museum of Art and History at the McPherson Center in downtown Santa Cruz. For more information, call (408) 459-2611.

**"The Social Contexts of Environmental Change in South Asia"** is the topic of a presentation by assistant professor of sociology Ben Crow on Monday, October 20. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled "Ecosystem and Community Health." The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. 

**_How Will We Survive? Democratizing Development in India: Voices from the Front Lines,_** a film documenting the voices of villagers displaced by the Bargi Dam, the first in a series planned for the sacred Narmada River in western India, will be shown on Thursday, October 23, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 110 Social Sciences 1. A question-and-answer session with the filmmakers, Anarug Singh and Jaharna Jhaveri, follows. For more information, call the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies at (408) 459-2833.

**"Speculation, Masculine Domesticity, and the Creation of Washington, D.C." **is the topic of a talk by Sarah Luria of the English Department at Stanford University on Wednesday, October 22, in the Oakes Mural Room at noon. The presentation is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided.

**Maria Cacho from the doctoral program in environmental planning at UC Berkeley** will speak on the topic "Variable Widths Determination for Streamside Buffer Zones." on Monday, October 20, at 2 p.m. in Room 327, Kresge College. For more information, call the Environmental Studies Department at (408)459-5287.

**"The Domestication of Militarizations: Feminist Perspectives on the Chiapas Uprising"** is the title of a presentation by June Nash, Distinguished Professor of Anthropology at the City College of New York on Wednesday, October 22, at 7 p.m. in the Baobab Room at Merrill College. For more information, call the Latin American and Lationo Studies Department at (408) 459-2833.

**"Adventures in Namibia 1," a slide-show presentation on explorations of Southern Africa** by Naomi Bloss, will take place on Thursday, October 23 at 7 p.m. at the Arboretum Horticulture Building. For more information, call (408) 427-1524.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-10-20/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 10-20-97")
