---
layout: post
title: Researchers Discover Disorderly Balls Of Protein That May Promote Scrapie, "Mad Cow," Alzheimer's, And Related Diseases
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Writhing balls of snakelike protein fragments may  initiate the dysfunctional lesions called plaques that clog the brains  of patients with Alzheimer's disease and similar neurological  disorders, according to new research at the University of California,  Santa Cruz, and UC San Francisco.

Unraveling how these disorderly balls of protein promote  plaque formation ultimately may help researchers develop drugs to  prevent the destructive plaques that impart a Swiss-cheese  appearance to the brains of mad cows, scrapie-diseased sheep, and  patients with Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (CJD), Alzheimer's disease,  and Parkinson's disease.

Scrapie, mad cow disease, and CJD are caused by proteins  called prions ("PREE-ons") that switch between two shapes, one  harmless, one harmful. Once altered, the harmful form seems  contagious: It induces others to change into the dangerous version.  The harmful forms aggregate together; under some conditions, they  may reorder to form long chains, called fibrils, that act like sticky  string. In the brain, these chains surround and kill nerve cells.  Conglomerations of dead nerve cells and fibrils, similar to the  plaques seen in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's patients, often  accumulate in the brains of animals and people with prion diseases.

In test-tube experiments, the team discovered that a  hodgepodge clot of protein fragments called "amorphous aggregate"  must exist for pieces of harmless prion protein to transform into  the dangerous shape. This research was the first to demonstrate  that the presence of amorphous aggregate triggers the shape change.

"To understand the disease, you must understand how it  forms," said Glenn Millhauser, associate professor of chemistry and  biochemistry at UCSC. "If our model is right, it could suggest  different strategies for drug development to halt the progress of  Alzheimer's--or even prevent it."

Former UCSC graduate student Karen Lundberg and several  colleagues published their research in the current issue (May 1997)  of the scientific journal Chemistry & Biology. Coauthors are Chris  Stenland, formerly of UCSC and now at the Bayer Corporation;  biochemists Fred Cohen and Stanley Prusiner of UC San Francisco;  and Millhauser.

Almost 20 years ago, Prusiner proposed the revolutionary idea  that certain neurological disorders were caused by infectious  proteins, which he dubbed "prions" (proteinaceous infectious  particles). Unlike bacteria or viruses, prions contain no genetic  material, making it hard to fathom how they could proliferate and  spread disease. However, most scientists now accept the idea that  prions cause mad cow disease, scrapie, kuru ("laughing cannibal"  disease), fatal familial insomnia, and CJD. Some of the diseases  occur spontaneously, while others are acquired through infection or  inheritance.

Prion proteins are a normal but mysterious component of  brains. "Your brain is loaded with this protein, and nobody knows  what it does," Millhauser said. "So long as they stay in the harmless  form and don't convert to the evil twin, you're in good shape." What  instigates the shape change from benign to injurious is still  unknown, but work in Millhauser's lab suggests a plausible model.

For her doctoral thesis, Lundberg studied a short fragment of  the benign form of the scrapie-causing prion, suggested by Prusiner.  She used a technique called "electron spin resonance" to watch how  different solutions of the protein fragment changed over time.

The amorphous aggregate developed only when the prion  protein was in high concentration. When the aggregate was present,  the prion fragments switched to the dangerous shape and linked  together into fibrils. Lundberg used electron microscopy to confirm  the presence of those chains. However, if the amorphous aggregate  was absent, the dangerous fibrils did not develop.

"The data suggest that the amorphous aggregate provides a site  that induces the formation of fibrils," Millhauser said. "We are  proposing a new mechanism. The amorphous aggregate may not only  initiate, but also stabilize, the injurious form."

This mechanism, should it bear up under further scrutiny,  poses an alternate strategy for drug therapy against diseases in  which fibrils develop in the brain. Today, many researchers target  the fibrils themselves by trying to cap them off and prevent them  from elongating into the forms that kill nerve cells. A more  fundamental approach, Millhauser hypothesizes, would be to "bust  up" the amorphous aggregate in some way. "Then, fibrils would never  form. That's a completely different tack, and we'd need to learn what  controls the solubility of these proteins."

The National Institutes of Health and the National Science  Foundation funded the research.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/06-97/060997-Disorderly_proteins.html "Permalink to 060997-Disorderly_proteins")
