---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: 
---

**The campus HIV Prevention Program is one of 12 key community agencies that will benefit from the AIDS Walk** on Saturday, October 18th. Proceeds from the walk will be used to provide greater outreach, programming, testing, and support for the campus. Walk teams have been organized at nearly all the colleges with the help of UCSC's HIV Prevention Program, and more walkers and volunteers are still needed. The walk will start at 9 a.m. at San Lorenzo Park. (Registration is at 8:30 a.m.; coffee, tea, and muffins will be provided.) Walk forms are available at the college offices or at the Student Health Center. If you have any questions, call the HIV Prevention Program at (408) 459-4679.

**Alice McGrath will be showing the video _From Sleepy Lagoon to Zoot Suit: The Irreverent Path of Alice McGrath_** and speaking in the Porter Dining Hall at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, October 15. Produced by Porter College's Bob Giges, the film, in which McGrath tells the story of the Sleepy Lagoon case and her involvement with it, won top honors at the Canadian International Annual Film and Video Festival. All are welcome and admission is free. For more information, contact Bob Giges at (408) 423-2093. For disability-related accommodations, contact Deva Hymen in advance of the event at (408) 459-2857.

**Chancellor Greenwood and fellow administrators will kick off the campus's United Way** **campaign** at an ice cream social on Monday, October 13, from 11:45 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. at McHenry Library. At 12:15 p.m. campus and community individuals will share briefly their reasons for supporting United Way. RSVP to Carol Lacey.

**Chitra Divakaruni will read from her first novel_ The Mistress of Spices_ (1997) and her acclaimed short-story collection _Arranged Marriage_ (1995)** on Monday, October 13, at 4 p.m. in Room 175, Stevenson. _Arranged Marriage_ won the 1996 American Book Award and the Bay Area Book Reviewers, and PEN Oakland awards for fiction. Divakaruni, who spent her first 19 years in India, has a Ph.D. in English from UC Berkeley and teaches creative writing at Foothill College.

**Eminent science fiction writer Pat Cadigan will present a public talk and read from her new novel **on Monday, October 20, at 4 p.m., in Kresge College Room 159. The talk is free and open to the public. Cadigan, acclaimed by the _London Guardian_ as "The Queen of Cyberpunk," is the author of four novels, _Bunraku_ (released this past March), _Mindplayers,_ _Synners,_ and _Fools;_ and three short story collections, _Patterns, Home By The Sea,_ and _Dirty Work._ For more information on the talk, call (408) 459-2781.

**Emergency preparation workshops for faculty, staff, and students with disabilities **will be offered on Friday, October 17th. (An emergency preparation guide for all UCSC faculty and staff will be distributed within the next few weeks; these workshops will address disability-related issues in particular.) The two one-hour workshops will be held in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. The first will be from 11 a.m.-12 noon; the second from 12:30-1:30 p.m. If neither of these times is convenient, those interested can call Susan Willats, ADA Compliance Officer to request workshop information.

**McHenry Library is offering free hands-on workshops this fall** providing an introduction to some of the many Internet-based resources available to researchers. Open to students, staff, and faculty on a space-available basis. No enrollment needed. For more information, e-mail Deborah Murphy. For disability-related accommodations, call (408)459-4033.

**The Science Library is also offering free workshops this fall** on a number of topics, including IEEE and ACM Full Text on the Web, Earth Sciences on the Web, and Physics on the Web. Workshops are open to students, staff, and faculty on a space-available basis. Many classes are hands-on, and with one exception (Health Information on the Web), don't require registration. For more information, contact Victoria Welborn.

**Celebrate Family Week** begins Sunday, October 19, with a Family Fair from noon to 4 p.m. at the West Playing Field (below Family Student Housing). Clowns, pony rides, petting zoo, face painting, family photos, and entertainment, including a dance performance by Omeya, music by Vicki Neville and Walkabout, and a medieval tournament. Call (408) 459-4085 for more information.

**Noel King, professor emeritus of history and comparative religion,** will speak on the topic "The God of Pilgrimages" on Tuesday, October 14, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Cowell College Conference Room. King will be looking at specific pilgrimages and analyzing what they tell us about God. The talk is part of a series, "Interpretations of God," sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. For more information, call (408) 423-8532.

**"Let's Get the Lead Out" is the topic of a presentation by Don Smith, professor of toxicology,** on Monday, October 13. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled "Ecosystem and Community Health." The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. 

**"Brave New Worlds: Robert de Clari's Conquest of Constantinople"** is the title of a talk by Sharon Kinoshita, associate professor of literature and language studies, at noon on Wednesday, October 15, in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. The presentation is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided. 

**"Exile, the Nation, Globalization, and De-nationalization in Asian American Literary and Cultural Studies: A Workshop"** will take place on Saturday, October 18, from 1 to 5 p.m. in Room 105 Oakes (rescheduled from last spring). Panelists include Rachel Lee (English and women's studies, UCLA), Colleen Lye (English, UC Berkeley), David Palumbo-Liu (comparative literature, Stanford University), and Sau-Ling Wong (ethnic studies, UC Berkeley), all of whom have been engaged in the discussions and debates around the constitution of Asian American literary and cultural studies.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-10-13/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 10-13-97")
