---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Summer sailing and rowing classes--**that combine hands-on practice in the harbor and out on the Monterey Bay with training in boating safety, weather, ocean conditions, sailing theory, rigging, navigation, and the maritime rules of the road--are being offered by OPERS to the campus community and the public. Classes are available for young people, aged 9 to 16, and for adults.

**The Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms"** concludes with a presentation by Norma Alarcon, professor of ethnic studies at UC Berkeley, titled "The Theoretical Work of Anzaldua's Borderlands," on Thursday, June 5. The colloquia are held in the Merrill College Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m., and the presentation is followed by discussion and refreshments. For more information, call (408) 459-3789.

**"Nitrogen Dynamics in Interface Zones at Elkhorn Slough"** is the topic of a presentation by Marc Los Huertos, a doctoral student in environmental studies, on Wednesday, June 4, at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. The talk concludes the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Greg Herken, staff historian at the Smithsonian Institution** in Washington, D.C., will give a talk on "War Games: Why the Smithsonian's Enola Gay Exhibit Was Downsized" on Monday, June 2, from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in 134 Cowell College. The presentation is sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**"Living in the Aftermath of Evil: The Political Culture of National Recovery"** is the title of a talk by Robert Meister, professor of politics, on Wednesday, June 4, at noon in the Oakes College Mural Room. The talk is sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies; for more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Professor Walter Mignolo of the Department of Romance Languages at Duke University** will speak on the topic "Frontiers, Borders, and Areas: Geohistorical Spaces and Epistemological Locations" on Wednesday, June 4, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes College Mural Room. The talk is sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies; for more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Open Studios--a show of student artwork**\--for the spring quarter will held be on Friday, June 6, from noon until 4 p.m. in the studios and courtyard of the Elena Baskin Visual Arts Studios, the Hahn Art Facility, and classrooms C101/102 in the Performing Arts Center. Featured student works include printmaking, painting, drawing, ceramic and metal sculpture, 3D and 2D intermedia, electronic art, and photography. In addition, there will be performance art and music. This event, sponsored by the Art Department, is free and open to the public. For more information, call (408) 459-2272.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-06-02/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 06-02-97")
