---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Announces Public Fund-Raising Campaign To Support Music Scholarships And Equipment And Instrument Purchases
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--In conjunction with the dedication of the new Music Center at  the University of California, Santa Cruz, UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood  announced the launching of the UCSC Music Campaign--a fund-raising program to  broaden the scope and outreach of the campus's Music Department. The campaign  will support efforts to recruit top high school seniors through four-year merit- based scholarships as well as fund instrument and equipment purchases and other  program needs.

The campaign has raised $545,000--just over half its goal of $1 million,  which is expected to be reached by June 30, 1998. The campaign will support  three aspects of the music program--student scholarships, equipment and  instrument funds, and general funds.

"The excellence of UCSC's music program, which integrates scholarship and  performance, is recognized nationally," notes Chancellor Greenwood. "In the brief  time since the completion of our new state-of-the-art facility, this program has  already experienced an increase in interest in music at UCSC by potential  students and their parents, performers, and audience members. The fact that the  UCSC Music Campaign is off to such a strong start is a real testament to how  highly our community values the arts."

"State funding made it possible for us to take the first step and build this  exceptional facility," says David Evan Jones, chair of the Music Department and a  professor of music. "We are fortunate to have the private funding in place to  support the next steps--equipping the building and providing student  scholarships. The campaign will make it possible to establish scholarship  endowments to attract the state's top students. The equipment fund will ensure  that when those students get here they have the equipment and performance  opportunities they need to develop their skills and succeed."

Music Campaign cochair Ernest T. "Bud" Kretschmer and his wife Jean  Kretschmer were the lead donors in the campaign, establishing the Ernest and  Jean Kretschmer Music Scholarship Endowment. "Helping talented young  performers to grow is so important," says Bud Kretschmer. "Without scholarship  support, many talented young students might never get the opportunity to study  music. It is a great pleasure to listen to these budding artists and know that one  day we may see them become top performers."

Harold "Hal" Hyde, emeritus vice chancellor of UCSC and cochair of the Music  Campaign, added that, "This facility complements other performing arts spaces  on the campus and in the region. It will makes it possible to attract the best  students as well as renowned performers to Santa Cruz."

The UCSC Music Campaign supports the following three areas:
* Student Resident Ensemble Program This program aims to attract California's top high school music students to UCSC.  Students will be identified and recruited through statewide music auditions. Top  competitors will be offered substantial four-year merit-based scholarships and a  seat in a resident student chamber ensemble. The program will start by  recruiting the players for a new string quartet and then a woodwind quintet.  These outstanding performers will anchor the larger ensembles such as the  University Orchestra. The ensemble seats provide excellent performance  experience for students and, at the same time, enhance the campus's musical  offerings.
* Musical Equipment Fund Along with recruiting top music scholars, UCSC's music program provides a  foundation for performance excellence through professional-quality facilities,  instruments, and equipment. The new Musical Equipment Fund supports the  purchase of instruments and equipment needed for students and faculty to take  full advantage of the center's excellent performance facilities.
* Musical Excellence Endowment With the flexible funds generated by this endowment, UCSC's Music Department  will respond to the changing needs of students, faculty, and the department. This  endowment also makes it possible to expand performance and equipment- purchasing opportunities.

The lead supporters of the campaign are:

Ernest T. "Bud" Kretschmer and Jean Kretschmer The Kretschmers initiated the Music Campaign with their gift, which established  the Ernest and Jean Kretschmer Music Scholarship Endowment. The campaign  would not exist without their generous contributions of both financial support  and volunteer time. Bud Kretschmer, who is a trustee of the UC Santa Cruz  Foundation, is cochairing the Music Campaign. The Music Center's main plaza has  been named in honor of the Kretschmers, who have been generous patrons of arts  organizations throughout the region.

Harold "Hal" Hyde and Persis "Perky" Hyde Hal and Perky Hyde are also generous donors to the UCSC Music Campaign, and Hal  Hyde also plays a key role in the Music Campaign as cochair of the campaign. Hal  Hyde was UCSC's first vice chancellor for business and finance, a position he held  from 1964 through 1975, and has long been active in arts and charitable fund- raising throughout Santa Cruz County. He was the founding treasurer of the UC  Santa Cruz Foundation and continues to serve as an active Foundation trustee. The  Hydes, residents of Corralitos, were involved in the development of the Mello  Center in Watsonville.

Siegfried Puknat UCSC Professor Emeritus Siegfried Puknat passed away at the age of 83 in  March1997, leaving a substantial legacy of both academic excellence and  financial support. Through a charitable remainder trust and his will, Professor  Puknat established the Siegfried B. and Elisabeth Mignon Puknat Music Endowment  to support music performances. As one of UCSC's founding faculty, Puknat played  a leading role in shaping campus policy; he also played a leading role in  establishing UCSC's Music Department. Along with the music endowment, Puknat  also created an endowment for UCSC's Humanities Division.

Lisa Eltinge  Eltinge is a UCSC alumna now living in New York City. She graduated from Cowell  College in 1978 with a degree in Latin American and Latino studies. 212/727- 0962

E-mu Systems E-mu Systems has provided a gift of equipment for UCSC's renowned electronic  music program, of which it has been a longtime supporter. E-mu Systems., Inc.,  located in Scotts Valley, is the leading developer of innovative digital audio  products based on digital sampling technology for the musical-instrument and  computer-controlled sound markets.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/05-97/052297-UCSC_announces_musi.html "Permalink to 052297-UCSC_announces_musi")
