---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Career Exploration Day**\--an opportunity for students to gain information and possibly interview with employers in the areas of high technology, business and finance, and science--will take place on Tuesday, November 4, from 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Cowell College Dining Hall. Students should come prepared with a resume, as selected employers will be interviewing after the event. For more information, including a list of employers stop by the Career Center at 125 Hahn Student Services, or call (408) 459-4420.

**The Steering Committee is now forming for the 1998 Women at Work Retreat,** which will be held May 21-22 at St. Francis Retreat in San Juan Bautista. Bring your energy, interests, and ideas to the first planning meeting on Thursday, November 6 at noon in the Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room. For more information, call Mary-Beth Harhen at (408) 459-3650.

**It is time for undergraduate social sciences students to apply for Media Grants**. Applications and guidelines are available at the Social Sciences Media Lab, Room 47, Social Sciences 2. The deadline for applications is January 9, 1998. 

**"The Health of Terrestrial Ecosystems"** is the title of a presentation by professor of biology Laurel Fox on Monday, November 3\. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled "Ecosystem and Community Health." The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College.

**"Decadent Origins: Abdelwahab Meddeb's Talismano and the Gift of Rhetoric"** is the title of a talk by Dina Al-Kassim, visiting assistant professor of comparative literature at Stanford University, on Tuesday, November 4, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. 

**"Anthropology and Protest in the Andes"** is the title of a presentation by Orin Starn, assistant professor of anthropology at Duke University, on Monday, November 3, from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 261, Social Sciences 1. The talk is part of the Anthropology Department's Fall Colloquium Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2380.

**"'Inside Girl': The Pakistani Poet and Her Double"** is the title of a presentation by Anu Aneja, associate professor in the Department of Humanities and Classics at Ohio Wesleyan University, on Wednesday, November 5, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. The presentation is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided. 

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-11-03/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 11-03-97")
