---
layout: post
title: Kenneth Thimann, Internationally Renowned Botanist, Dies At 92
author: Robert Irion 
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Kenneth V. Thimann, whose career as one of the  world's leading botanists spanned more than 50 years at Harvard  University and the University of California, Santa Cruz, where he  helped establish a new university campus, died on Wednesday,  January 15. He was 92.

Thimann died peacefully at his home at The Quadrangle,  Haverford, PA, following a long illness. He was surrounded by family  members and friends.

Thimann was a pioneering researcher in the field of plant  physiology. He was best known for describing the functions of  hormones in the control and development of plants. In particular, he  identified the growth hormone known as auxin and characterized its  chemical structure, a discovery of critical importance to the  agriculture and horticulture industries. He also was highly regarded  for his research on the biosynthesis of pigments responsible for the  colors of flowers and fruits, and the action of various zones of the  light spectrum on photosynthesis. Later in life, he began to focus on  the factors controlling the mechanisms of plant senescence,  especially the aging of leaves.

For his contributions, Thimann received the prestigious Balzan  Prize in 1982, an honor awarded yearly in areas not covered by the  Nobel Prizes. The award was worth $110,000. "The impact of  [Thimann's] discoveries on agriculture and horticulture cannot be  underestimated," wrote the Balzan Prize committee. "The elucidation  of the way in which individual [plant] hormones act in connection  with other hormones present is considered as one of his greatest  achievements. He is also an inspiring leader of more than a  generation of botanists and is regarded as the doyen of a line of  research that has revolutionized plant physiology."

Thimann's numerous other honors included membership in the  U.S. National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts  and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and international  scientific societies in England, France, Germany, India, Italy, the  Netherlands, Japan, and Romania. He held honorary degrees from  Harvard University, the University of Basel in Switzerland, the  University of Clermont-Ferrand in France, and Brown University. The  degree from Brown, awarded in 1989, included a citation that read,  in part, "As a statesman of science, and one whose own discoveries  have had far-reaching application to the feeding of our planet, we  honor you today for your achievements both human and humane."

During his scientific career Thimann wrote or coauthored  about 300 research papers and several books. Three of his books are  considered landmarks in the development of modern botany:  Phytohormones (1937), coauthored with F. W. Went; The Life of  Bacteria (1955); and Hormone Action in the Whole Life of Plants  (1977).

Thimann was born in Ashford, England, on August 5, 1904. He  earned his B.Sc. and Ph.D. in chemistry and biochemistry from  Imperial College, University of London, and a diploma from the  University of Graz, Austria. He taught at the University of London for  several years before coming to the California Institute of  Technology in 1930 as an instructor in bacteriology and  biochemistry.

Thimann joined the faculty of Harvard University in 1935 and  remained there for 30 years. He was director of Harvard's Biological  Laboratories from 1946 through 1950 and was Higgins Professor of  Biology from 1962 to 1965. He was an associate at Eliot House, and  in 1962 he became the first master of East House at Radcliffe  College when Radcliffe organized its women's residences along the  lines of the Harvard houses.

Thimann was a technical consultant to the U.S. Navy during  World War II. He worked with the Navy's operations research group in  Washington, D.C., London, and Pearl Harbor.

In 1965 Thimann moved west at the urging of the founding  chancellor of UC Santa Cruz, Dean McHenry, to become professor of  biology at UCSC and the first provost of Crown College, the third of  UCSC's eight academic colleges. Thimann retired as provost in 1972  but remained active in research and university affairs for many  years. He moved to Haverford in 1989, where he set up an active  research collaboration at the University of Pennsylvania with the  eldest of his three daughters.

UCSC honored Thimann's pioneering contributions to his field  and to the early growth of the campus by renaming its first  biological sciences research facility, Natural Sciences 1, for him in  1972\. Today, Thimann Laboratories houses research and  instructional labs in chemistry and biochemistry.

Among Thimann's most noteworthy contributions to the campus  was his nurturing of the UCSC Arboretum into an internationally  known collection of plants from Australia, New Zealand, and South  Africa. He chaired the chancellor's committee on Arboretum and  plantations for 15 years and helped to launch the Arboretum  Associates, a community support group, in 1977. He also was an  accomplished amateur pianist and founded the Crown Chamber  Players with his wife, Ann Mary Bateman Thimann, a skilled weaver  who died in 1987.

Thimann is survived by his daughters, Vivianne Nachmias of  Philadelphia, professor of cell biology at the University of  Pennsylvania; Karen Romer of Providence, RI, associate dean for  academic affairs at Brown University; and Linda Dewing of  Providence, a self-employed artist and businesswoman; six  grandchildren; and two great grandchildren.

Friends may make contributions in Thimann's memory to the  UCSC Arboretum Associates. Checks payable to the UC Santa Cruz  Foundation and designated for the Arboretum Associates may be sent  to the following address: UC Santa Cruz Foundation, University  Advancement, 1156 High Street, University of California, Santa  Cruz, CA, 95064-1077.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/01-97/011697-Kenneth_Thimann_fou.html "Permalink to 011697-Kenneth_Thimann_fou")
