---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: Mary Ann Dewey
---

**Counseling psychologist Gary Shoemaker** of Merrill College was given an award of appreciation for service to the Northern California Training Directors at its recent conference, hosted by UCSC's Counseling and Psychological Services.

**Planning for the 1997 Women at Work Retreat** will begin at a meeting on Wednesday, January 29, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room. All those interested in serving on the retreat steering committee are invited to attend. The theme for this year's retreat is "Building Connections." For more information, call Connie Croker at (408) 459-2713.

**Project Muse, with over 40 electronic journals published by Johns Hopkins University Press,** is now available on the Web to UCSC faculty, students, and staff. Project Muse titles include the _American Journal of Mathematics, American Journal of Philology, Annals of Mathematics, Callaloo, Configurations, Diacritics, Late Imperial China, MLN, Performing Arts Journal, Prooftexts, Wide Angle,_ and _World Politics._ Project Muse lets you read articles in these journals without going to the library. Continuation of Project Muse beyond the end of 1997 depends on how heavily UCSC uses it. Project Muse is available at <http://jhupress.jhu.edu/index.html>. For more information, contact the reference desks at McHenry Library (408) 459-5171 or the Science Library (408) 459-2886.

**The Anthropology Department's Winter Colloquium Series** continues with a talk on Monday, January 27, by Kathleen Stewart of the Anthropology Department of the University of Texas at Austin on the topic "The Eruption of Monstrosity: Toward a Poetics of Intimate Publicity in the U.S." The talk will be held from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 261 of Social Sciences 1.

**The Center for Cultural Studies Colloquium Series** continues with a presentation by Mary Louise Roberts of the History Department at Stanford University on the topic "Great Performers: The New Women, Journalism, and Theater at the Fin-de-Siecle" on Wednesday, January 29, in the Cowell College Conference Room. The session begins at noon, with a 30 to 40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch.

**The Stevenson Program on Global Security Winter Colloquium** continues on Monday, January 27, with a talk by Isebill Gruhn, professor of politics, on the topic "NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations) in Partnership with the U.N.: A New Fix or a New Problem for African Development?" The colloquium is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 110 of Social Sciences 1\. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**The California Wellness Foundation and UCOP have issued a call for abstracts for the 1997 Wellness Lectures Program.** Faculty are invited to submit an abstract and application to prepare a paper and present an hour-long lecture drawn from the paper to their campus community. The lectures should address policy implications or service issues, including clinical or personal recommendations or strategies for improving the health of Californians through prevention and other wellness efforts. The six winning applicants will receive $3,000 and an additional $1,000 to cover research assistance and editing expenses. The deadline for applications is Friday, April 4; the award announcements will be made in early June. Final papers are due September 3. Applications are available at the UCSC Sponsored Projects/Contracts and Grants Office. For additional information, please contact Zaida Ali in Health Affairs at (510) 987-9320.

**The Committee on Regents' Professors and Lecturers is soliciting nominations for the 1997-98 academic year.** The Regents' Professors and Lecturers Program was established to bring distinguished men and women to the university, ordinarily from nonacademic careers, who through their contact with students and faculty may add breadth to the educational experience of students and otherwise enrich university life. The program has limited funding for stipends and travel only. Nominations should originate from academic units rather than individuals and should provide detailed information on how the nominee would be utilized to enhance unit programs, as well as how he or she would relate to other academic programs. Nominations should be forwarded to the appropriate divisional dean for review and recommendation prior to submission to the committee. The deadline for submission of nominations to the committee is February 28. For more information, call Linda Mueller, Academic Human Resources, at (408) 459-4689.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-01-27/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 01-27-97")
