---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The Staff Art and Craft Show opens on Friday, May 9, at the Women's Center** with an ice cream social from 3 to 5 p.m. The show, which continues until noon May 16, can be viewed from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. weekdays.

**Teams are forming for the 10th annual Prediction Walk/Run relay,** which will take place on Thursday, May 22, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the East Field track. Each team has four members and each team member walks or runs one-half mile; the team with the time closest to their own prediction before the race wins. The deadline for entering is May 19; for an entry form or more information, call Dan Wood at (408) 459-2531.

**Neferti Tadiar, a new assistant professor in history of consciousness,** will give a talk titled "Domestic Bodies of the Philippines" on May 7 in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch.

**Japan in Not Interesting** is the title of a presentation by Masao Miyoshi, Hajime Mori Professor of Japanese, English, and comparative literature at UC San Diego, on Thursday, May 8, at 4 p.m. in 159 Kresge College. Miyoshi's book _Accomplices of Silence: The Modern Japanese Novel_ (1974) transformed Western-language scholarship on modern Japanese literature, and his later work on Japanese literary and intellectual production and on U.S.-Japan relations established him in the U.S. and in Japan as an independent critic whose work angered Japanophiles and Japanophobes alike.

**Ron Greer of the Loch Gary Project will speak on the topic "The Loch Gary Restoration: Beyond Brigadoon" **on Wednesday May 7. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. All seminars are held at 4 p.m. in Room 148, Porter College. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Nietzsche, Derrida, and the Deconstruction of "Being"** is the title of a talk by alumnus Christoph Cox (Ph.D. '94) of the University of Chicago on Wednesday, May 7, at 3:30 p.m. in the Silverman Lounge at Stevenson College. The talk is cosponsored by the Philosophy Department and the Center for Cultural Studies. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-05-05/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 05-05-97")
