---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Video, CD-ROM, and the Web: Motion Media and the Library of the Future** is the title of a live teleconference, sponsored by the University Library, on Thursday, May 15, from 10 a.m. to noon at 156 Applied Science. A videotape of the teleconference will be produced and at a future date be made available in the University Library's Media Center. The teleconference can also be seen on UCSC cable channel 48. For more information, contact Sandy Shaffer at (408) 459-5145 or sshaffer@cats.ucsc.edu.

**University police officer Robert Jones** is planning to join 2,000 other riders in June in the San Francisco to Los Angeles AIDS bike ride. The money raised by the pledges collected by each rider will benefit the San Francisco AIDS Foundation, a nonprofit organization that provides comprehensive health care and social services to those with AIDS/HIV.

**The Business of Technology** is the title of the third annual conference of Women in Technology International (WITI), which will be held June 4-6 at the Santa Clara Convention Center. UCSC is one of the supporting patrons of the conference. For more information about the conference, contact WITI at (800) 334-9484; via e-mail at info@witi.com, or on the Internet at <http://www.witi.com>.

**A workshop titled Exile, the Nation, Globalization, and De-Nationalization in Asian American Literary and Cultural Studies** will take place on Thursday, May 15, from 2 to 5 p.m. in the Merrill Dining Hall; a reception will follow. Panelists include Colleen Lye (English, UC Berkeley), David Palumbo-Liu (comparative literature, Stanford University), and Sau-Ling Wong (ethnic studies, UC Berkeley), all of whom have been engaged in the discussions and debates around the constitution of Asian American literary and cultural studies. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Juan Martinez Alier from the Department of Economics and Economic History at the Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona** will speak on Ecological Economics as Human Ecology on Monday, May 12, at 4 p.m. in 301 College Eight. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Indian Rights, Identity Politics, and Internationalization in Latin America** is the title of a talk by Alison Brysk, professor of politics at Claremont College, on Monday, May 12, from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in 134 Cowell College. The presentation is part of the Spring Colloquium on International, Global, and Comparative Issues, sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Living in the Aftermath of Evil: The Political Culture of National Recovery** is the topic of a talk by Bob Meister, professor of politics, on Wednesday, May 14, in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Associate professor of history Tyler Stovall will give a lecture titled Paris Noir** on Wednesday, May 14, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. Stovall has published extensively on the social history of Paris with an emphasis on the crucial and often neglected role played by ethnicity in the shaping of that history. His talk will focus on selected chapters of his book _Paris Noir: African-Americans in the City of Light_ (Houghton Mifflin, 1996). For more information, call (408) 459-3532.

**The Astonishing Food of the Land: A Political Ecology of Taro (Colocasia esculenta) in Hawai'i **is the topic of a talk by Jonathan Scheuer, a Ph.D student in environmental studies, on Wednesday, May 14, at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Chicanas and Mexicanas Talk'n Sex: Theorizing Silence and Cultural Practice** is the title of a presentation by Patricia Zavella, chair/professor of community studies, on Thursday, May 15. Her talk is part of the Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms." The colloquia are held in the Merrill Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m. Presentations are followed by discussion and refreshments. For more information, call (408) 459-3789.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-05-12/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 05-12-97")
