---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Now there is an interface to the MELVYL system on the World Wide Web;** The Web-based interface provides an easy-to-use format for searching the MELVYL Catalog and Periodicals databases and six of the MELVYL abstracting and indexing databases currently licensed for UC users and loaded on the MELVYL system; the interface for the remaining databases loaded on the MELVYL system will be available in the next few months. Development of the Web interface to the MELVYL system is a collaborative effort of the UC Libraries and the Division of Library Automation. For more information, contact the University Library Reference Desks.

**The Clash of Conceptualizations: Culture, Identity, Geopolitics** is the title of presentation by Ronnie Lipschutz, associate professor of politics, on Monday, April 21, from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in 134 Cowell College, sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. For more information, call (408) 459-3275.

**A symposium titled Debating Globalization: Environment, Finance & Democracy** will take place April 22-24. Professor Robert Wade of Brown University will speak on "The 'Greening' of the World Bank: Fact or Fiction?" on Tuesday, April 22, from 4 to 6 p.m. in Classroom Unit 1\. A discussion, led by Jonathan Fox of UCSC's Latin American and Latino studies, will follow. On Wednesday, April 23, Professor Barry Eichengreen of UC Berkeley will make a presentation on the "Globalization of Finance: Challenges to Sovereignty & Democracy" and Professor Wade will speak on "Rethinking State Intervention" from 5 to 7 p.m. in 150 Stevenson College. On Thursday, April 24, "Democratic Strategies for a Global Production System" will be the topic of a presentation by Professor Harley Shaiken of UC Berkeley; a discussion led by Helen Shapiro of Latin American and Latino studies will follow. The symposium is sponsored by the Center for Global, International and Regional Studies. For more information, call (408) 459-2833 or 459-3275.

**Competition and Coexistence of Larval Ant Lions** is the topic of a talk by Nick Gotelli of the Department of Biology at the University of Vermont on Tuesday, April 22, at 2 p.m. in Room 123 of Sinsheimer Labs. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Is There Environmental Racism? The Demographics of Hazardous Waste in L.A. County** is the title of a talk by Manuel Pastor, professor of Latin American and Latino studies, on Wednesday, April 23, at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-3718.

**The Passion of the Signifier** is the title of talk by Kaja Silverman, professor of rhetoric and film and director of Film Studies at UC Berkeley, on Wednesday, April 23, in 159 Kresge College. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. Silverman will also present a talk at 4 p.m. in 159 Kresge with Harun Farocki, a German documentary and essay filmmaker who teaches at UC Berkeley, titled "Anal Capitalism." Their presentation will focus on Jean-Luc Godard's film _Weekend._ The film will be shown at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, April 22, in the Kresge Town Hall in preparation for the talk; there is no admission charge. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Chicana Political Consciousness: Culturally Gendered, Race, Ethnic, Class, and Dissident Voices** is the title of a presentation by Professor Beatriz Pesquera of UC Davis on Thursday, April 24. Her talk is part of the Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms." The colloquia are held in Merrill College's Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m. Presentations are followed by discussion and refreshments. For more information, call (408) 459-3789.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-04-21/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 04-21-97")
