---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**A public talk by Assemblyman Fred Keeley on May 29 has been canceled.** Keeley, who had been scheduled to discuss "How Is the California Legislature Treating the Environment this Year?" as part of an environmental studies course, must attend a special legislative session in Sacramento that day.

**Open Studios--a show of student artwork** for the spring quarter will held be on Friday, June 6, from noon until 4 p.m. in the studios and courtyard of the Elena Baskin Visual Arts Studios, the Hahn Art Facility, and classrooms C101/102 in the Performing Arts Center. Featured student works include printmaking, painting, drawing, ceramic and metal sculpture, 3D and 2D intermedia, electronic art, and photography. In addition, there will be performance art and music. This event, sponsored by the Art Department, is free and open to the public. For more information, call (408) 459-2272.

**The Dissolution of Political Authority in Eastern Europe** is the title of a lecture by Gaspar Miklos Tamas, of Eotvos Lorand University in Budapest, Hungary, on Tuesday, May 27, from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in 134 Cowell College. The presentation is sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Professor of history Tyler Stovall will give a lecture (rescheduled from May 14)** titled "Paris Noir" on Wednesday, May 28, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. Stovall has published extensively on the social history of Paris with an emphasis on the crucial and often-neglected role played by ethnicity in the shaping of that history. His talk will focus on selected chapters of his book _Paris Noir: African-Americans in the City of Light_ (Houghton Mifflin, 1996). For more information, call (408) 459-3532.

**Sustainable Industry: Oxymoron or Institutional Design Problem?** is the title of a talk by Bruce Paton, a doctoral student in environmental studies, on Wednesday, May 28, at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Traveling Medicines and the Good Life** is the title of a talk by Nancy Chen, assistant professor of anthropology, on Wednesday, May 28, in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30- to 40-minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Trade and Human Rights** is the topic of a lecture by T. N. Srinivasin, professor of economics at Yale University, on Thursday, May 29, from 2 to 3:30 p.m. in 261 Social Sciences 1. The talk is sponsored by the Economics Department; for more information, call (408) 459-5028.

**The Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms" continues** with a presentation by Sonia Saldivar-Hull, assistant professor of English at UCLA, titled "Aesthetics and Activism in Chicana Cultural Production," on Thursday, May 29, in the Charles E. Merrill Lounge at Merrill College. The colloquia are held from 4 to 6 p.m., and the presentation is followed by discussion and refreshments. For more information, call (408) 459-3789.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-05-26/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 05-26-97")
