---
layout: post
title: Extended UCSC Family Gathers For Banana Slug Spring Fair On April 19
author: Marina Malikoff
---

Alumni, current and prospective students, and their families and friends will come to the campus on Saturday, April 19, for the Banana Slug Spring Fair.

Last year, more than 3,000 people attended the fair. This year's campus open house features special faculty lectures; alumni reunions; tours of the colleges, campus, and special facilities; and presentations by UCSC's programs in the natural sciences, social sciences, arts, and humanities. Also this year will be a special evening performance in the new music facility.

For more information, contact University Advancement at ext. 2501.

Highlights of this year's fair include:
* Faculty lectures with topics ranging from volcanic activity in Costa Rica, to open-space preservation in California, to 50 years of yo-yoing (complete with tricks).
* Alumni journalist panels, addressing such topics as "Covering the Big Story," "The Perils and Promise of On-Line Publishing," and more. Interested alumni may contact Roz Spafford at Kresge College to get involved.
* The Class of '77, celebrating its 20-year reunion with an evening of conversation, dancing, and reminiscence.
* The All-Class Reunion Luncheon. The Classes of '67, '72, '77, '82, '87, and '92 will be honored. All alumni are welcome.
* Cowell College, celebrating art history professor emerita Mary Holmes. Events include a lecture, an exhibition of her work, and a reception.
* Receptions at each college. In addition, Cowell will hold its annual evening waltz; Porter will host a celebration of Asian culture; Oakes will hold an awards ceremony; Merrill students will paint the moat; College Eight hosts the eighth annual African American Appreciation Day.
* Special reunions. For mathematics majors, a celebration with emeritus faculty Ralph Abraham, Al Kelly, Ed Landesman, and others; a picnic for classics majors; gatherings for Cowell Classes of '72, '82, and '87.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-03-31/banana.htm "Permalink to Banana Slug Spring Fair: 03-31-97")
