---
layout: post
title: Parking Restrictions Planned On Mt. Hamilton Road During Peak Nights For Viewing Comet Hale-Bopp; No Public Programs At Lick Observatory
author: Robert Irion
---

MT. HAMILTON, CA--Public officials and law enforcement agencies  plan to forbid parking on roads leading to Lick Observatory and other  backcountry roads in Santa Clara County for three weeks beginning  Friday, March 21, to help prevent hazardous traffic situations from  developing during the peak period for viewing Comet Hale-Bopp.

Astronomers at Lick Observatory regret that there are no  public facilities available to view the comet from atop Mount  Hamilton. The narrow and winding Mt. Hamilton Road (State Highway  130) becomes a safety hazard if many spectators attempt to drive to  the summit at the same time. Nighttime traffic jams have occurred  on this road during other astronomical events, jeopardizing access  for emergency vehicles and endangering pedestrians who have  abandoned their cars.

The California Highway Patrol, in cooperation with Lick  Observatory, the Santa Clara County Sheriff's Department, Caltrans,  and other agencies, will restrict parking along Mt. Hamilton Road,  upper Quimby Road, Calaveras Road, Felter Road, Sierra Road, and  other county roads as necessary to prevent hazards. Parking bans  will be in force from 6 p.m. to midnight starting on March 21 and  running through April 10.

Law enforcement officials will tow vehicles blocking traffic  lanes or left unattended on roadsides. If too many comet-watchers  attempt to drive to the observatory, authorities may close Mt.  Hamilton Road at Grant County Park. If roads are closed, officers  will provide handouts explaining the restrictions and directing  people to other sites in the Bay Area where public-viewing events  for the comet are planned.

Grant County Park will not be open after sunset on most nights  during this period. However, the Halls Valley Astronomical Group  will host public comet-watching sessions at Grant County Park on  two nights: Saturday, March 29, and Saturday, April 5. Visitors  should arrive before sunset on those dates; there will be a $3  entrance fee per vehicle.

Comet Hale-Bopp, expected to become one of the brightest  comets this century, should be easily visible to the naked eye and  with binoculars for several weeks. At its brightest, it may outshine  any star in the sky. It already is visible low in the northwest after  sunset; it gradually will rise higher and become brighter toward the  end of the month and in early April.

Viewers will not need a telescope to see the comet,  astronomers expect. Indeed, the best tools for skygazers will be  their own eyes, a pair of binoculars, and the patience to view the  comet from a dark site. It even may be visible near city lights, but  bright skies will wash out most details in the comet's tail.

Although Lick Observatory will have no public programs for  viewing Comet Hale-Bopp, astronomers will conduct some scientific  observations. Professor Hyron Spinrad of UC Berkeley plans to  observe the comet with a small telescope next to the observatory's  main research instrument, the 120-inch Shane Telescope. Light  gathered by the small telescope will feed into the Hamilton  Spectrograph, a sophisticated instrument beneath the Shane  Telescope that recently played a key role in discovering new planets  outside of our solar system.

Spinrad will study gas flowing out of the comet as it nears the  sun. He will focus on charged particles of water that speed away  from the comet's nucleus as the sun heats it. The overall goal is to  determine how the sun's "solar wind" affects the region near the  comet's core.

Lick Observatory is an astronomical research facility operated  by the University of California Observatories. Its administrative  headquarters are on the UC Santa Cruz campus. The observatory's  visitors center is open to the public from 12:30 to 5 p.m. on  weekdays and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekends. For information,  call (408) 274-5061.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/03-97/031397-Lick_Observatory_no.html "Permalink to 031397-Lick_Observatory_no")
