---
layout: post
title: Yom Hashoah Events Planned At UC Santa Cruz And Temple Beth El
author: Barbara McKenna
---

What: Yom Hashoah (Holocaust Remembrance Day) takes place this year on Sunday,  May 4.  Special events are planned at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and  at Temple Beth El in Aptos in commemoration of the day.

Observances will begin at UCSC with an academic conference,  featuring leading Holocaust scholars from around the country. Following  will be an investiture ceremony to seat two professors in the recently  established Neufeld-Levin Holocaust Endowed Chair. Observances will  conclude with an evening of prayer and performances at Temple Beth El in  Aptos. All events are free and open to the public.

For more information on UCSC events, media may contact Barbara  McKenna at (408) 459-2495; the public may contact UCSC's Humanities  Division at (408) 459-2696. For more information on temple events, media  may contact Mildred Pechman at (408) 688- 7140. The public may call the  temple at (408) 479-3444. When and where:  Sunday, May 4  Conference: "Family Histories and the Holocaust" 10 A.M. to 3:45 P.M.  Stevenson College, UCSC (see attached schedule)

Investiture ceremony: Neufeld-Levin Holocaust Endowed Chair 4 to 4:30 P.M. Stevenson Fireside Lounge, UCSC

Yom Hashoah services and performance by Jeff Raz 7:30 to 10 P.M. Temple Beth El, 3055 Porter Gulch Rd., Aptos (see additional information, below) Photo opportunities: Reporters, camera crews, and photographers are invited to attend the  investiture ceremony. The brief program includes comments by Rabbi  Richard Litvak of Temple Beth El, UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood, Anne  Neufeld Levin, and Professors Murray Baumgarten and Peter Kenez. Yom Hashoah: Yom Hashoah was established to commemorate the 6 million victims of  the Holocaust. Although the commemoration was initiated in Israel, it is  observed around the world. Yom Hashoah takes place on the 27th day of  Nissan on the Jewish calendar.

Temple Beth El Program:  The evening temple program begins with opening prayer, meditation, and  music by Rabbi Richard Litvak, Cantor Paula Marcus, Stephanie Gelman- Peck, and Aaron Miller. Following will be a performance of Father-Land by  Jeff Raz, artist-in-residence at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln. His  one-man show on the long-term ramifications of the Holocaust opened in  1990 at the Solo Mio Festival in San Francisco. Since then, he has toured  the show to numerous theatres and synagogues. The show was described by  Billboard magazine as a "tale with deftly drawn characters. . . lyrically  evocative juggling. . . a little physical shtick . . . and a lot of truth." UCSC  Executive Vice Chancellor Michael Tanner will make closing remarks. A  reception hosted by Anne and Paul Levin follows. For more information on  temple events, media may contact Mildred Pechman at (408) 688-7140.  The public may call the temple at (408) 479-3444.

Neufeld-Levin Holocaust Endowed Chair:  Established in May 1995, the Neufeld-Levin Chair is one of just a handful  of endowed chairs in the United States devoted to the examination of the  Holocaust. In September 1996 Professors Murray Baumgarten and Peter  Kenez were named chairholders for the next five years. The chair was  endowed by Anne Neufeld Levin of Santa Cruz with the purpose of  supporting teaching, research, and public service for the study of the  Holocaust. The May 4 conference is one of the activities supported by the  chair.

Murray Baumgarten: Baumgarten is a professor of English and comparative literature at UCSC  and the editor of Judaism, a national journal of Jewish scholarship,  culture, religion, and history. He has done extensive research and  published works on the Holocaust and on modern Jewish writers.  Baumgarten's parents fled from Hitler's troops in 1938 and he was born on  the boat they took from Vienna to Panama. Baumgarten is the founding  director of the Dickens Project, an international group based at UCSC. He  has studied and written on Victorian culture and Dickens as well as  Jewish culture, religion, and art and the portrayal of Jews in the works of  Charles Dickens and other Victorian writers. He is editor of an eight- volume edition (in progress) of the works of Thomas Carlyle.

Peter Kenez:  Kenez is a professor of history at UCSC. A Holocaust survivor and native of  Hungary, he is a scholar of the history of Russia and the former Soviet  Union. He recently completed work as director of the University of  California's Education Abroad Program in Budapest, Hungary. Kenez is the  author of Varieties of Fear: Growing Up Jewish Under Nazism and  Communismand a number of books on Soviet history, including Cinema  and Soviet Society, 1917-1953; and The Birth of the Propaganda State:  Soviet Methods of Mass Mobilization, 1917-1929.

Anne Neufeld Levin: Levin is a resident of Santa Cruz and a trustee of the UC Santa Cruz  Foundation. She narrowly escaped Nazi persecution when, at the age of  three, she fled from Austria with her parents, Henry and Hedy Neufeld,  just as Hitler's troops invaded Czechoslovakia in 1939. Levin is a longtime  supporter and volunteer at UCSC. In addition to endowing the chair, she  also donated a body of Holocaust-related materials to establish the  Neufeld Family Archive. The archive includes family documents, medals,  stamps, artifacts, photos, memorabilia, and letters, many of which  document a personal history of the Holocaust. A former president of the  UC Santa Cruz Foundation, Levin also established the annual Neufeld-Levin  Holocaust Lecture Series in 1994. She served as cochair of the  Development Committee for the Karl S. Pister Leadership Opportunity  Awards Program and as a member of several other groups supporting the  university.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/04-97/042497-Holocaust_remembran.html "Permalink to 042497-Holocaust_remembran")
