---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The Education Abroad Program is seeking applications from faculty** for directorship positions for the 1998-99 and 1999-2000 academic years. Candidates must be tenured members of the Academic Senate, lecturers with security of employment, or emeriti faculty. In all but a few cases, candidates must be fluent in the language of the host country and have a broad knowledge of the host culture. For more information or an application packet, call the campus EAP office.

**Foreign Aid as Giving** is the title of a talk by professor Tom Hattori of the Global Studies Program at CSU Monterey Bay, on Monday, May 19, from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in 134 Cowell College. The presentation is part of the Spring Colloquium on International, Global, and Comparative Issues, sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Space and Location** is the title of a talk by Walter Mignolo, professor of Romance languages at Duke University, on Monday, May 19, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. Professor Mignolo will explore the possibilities of putting together three "national" traditions of cultural studies--Black British, Latin American, and Chicano. The talk is cosponsored by the Inter-Americas Research Cluster and the Chicano Latino Research Center. For more information, call (408) 459-4199.

**Immigrant Inflows, Native Outflows, and the Local Labor Market Impact of Higher Immigration** is the title of a lecture by David Card of Princeton University, currently a visiting professor at the Center for the Advanced Study of Behavioral Sciences at Stanford, on Tuesday, May 20, from 2 to 3:30 p.m. in 261 Social Sciences 1. For more information, call (408) 459-5028.

**Tina Campt, a new assistant professor of women's studies,** will give a presentation titled "Engaging Black Europe: Reading Race, Sexuality, and Gender in an Afro-German Narrated Biography" on Wednesday, May 21, in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Landscape, Structure, Nitrogen Cycling, and Ecological Sustainability of Chinese Village Ecosystems** is the topic of a talk by Earle Ellis, research associate in environmental studies, on Wednesday, May 21, at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**The Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms"** continues with a presentation by Rosa Linda Fregoso, associate professor of women's studies at UC Davis, titled "Recycling Colonialist Fantasies on the Borderlands," on Thursday, May 22. The colloquia are held in the Merrill Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m. Presentations are followed by discussion and refreshments. For more information, call (408) 459-3789.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-05-19/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 05-19-97")
