---
layout: post
title: Leon Panetta At UC Santa Cruz On Sunday, September 21, For Convocation For New Students
author: [Elizabeth Irwin, Jim Burns]
---

SANTA CRUZ--Former White House chief of staff Leon Panetta, a longtime  congressman representing the Monterey Bay Area, is scheduled to deliver the  keynote address at UCSC's annual convocation for new students. The event-- on Sunday, September 21--will take place from  4 to 5 P.M. in the Upper Quarry Amphitheater on the UCSC campus.

The Convocation for New Students, which formally welcomes new  students to the campus and surrounding community each fall, is open to the  general public. Parking will be available in UCSC's East Remote Lot, where  shuttle service will be provided to the site.

Also speaking at the event will be UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood,  UCSC Executive Vice Chancellor R. Michael Tanner, Student Union Assembly  Chair Sara Dozier, and Santa Cruz Mayor Cynthia Mathews.

Panetta had been scheduled to be keynote speaker at the chancellor's  inauguration this past May. He declined to attend the event, however, when a  union--involved in a labor dispute--set up a picket line at the base of  campus on the day of the inauguration.

From 1977 to 1993, Panetta was a U.S. Representative from California's  16th (now 17th) congressional district. He served eight full terms and had  begun serving his ninth when in January 1993 he was confirmed by the U.S.  Senate as director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the  Clinton administration. Panetta directed OMB until July 1994, when he was  named White House chief of staff, a position he held through the end of  President Clinton's first four-year term this past January.

The University Events Office is presenting the convocation through the  sponsorship of the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/09-97/091897-Panetta_at_UCSC_for.html "Permalink to 091897-Panetta_at_UCSC_for")
