---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Tip Sheet April 1997
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

**News and feature ideas in the social sciences, issued periodically by the UCSC Public Information Office. For more information, contact Jennifer McNulty at (408) 459-2495 or mcnulty@ua.ucsc.edu**

**Psychology**

He said, she said: Psychologist Campbell Leaper studies language  and gender

Developmental psychologist Campbell Leaper offers a first step for  those who are concerned about gender inequality: Encourage girls and boys to  play together. "If girls and boys don't play together as children, how can we  expect men and women to get along in the workplace or in love  relationships?" asks Leaper.

Leaper studies the role of language in the construction of gender, and  his subjects range from toddlers to college students. Yes, he said, mothers  and fathers do talk differently to their children. And yes, women gossip  more than men, but they are also better listeners. The biggest problem, he  asserted, is that boys and girls don't share enough activities.

Leaper has found that different activities elicit different styles of  interaction. For example, playing with toy cars tends to elicit what  psychologists call "task-oriented" talk as participants discuss laying out  track and how to "get the job done." Playing with toy dishes, however,  involves storytelling and generates more "collaborative" communication,  says Leaper.

To the extent that boys and girls choose different activities as  children, they develop different communication styles. "By the time we're  adults, everyone is reaching for the latest pop psychology book about why  women and men can't talk to each other," Leaper said.

Contact: Campbell Leaper--(408) 459-4496 or cam@cats.ucsc.edu

Remember this: Psychologist Mary Sue Weldon studies memory

Imagine if remembering how to walk was as hard as remembering your  great uncle's birthday. If you're like most people, you'd be tripping all over  yourself.

Indeed, walking is such a natural activity that it's not something  people typically associate with memory. That's because it draws on what  memory researchers call implicit memory, which takes no conscious effort  and governs activities like walking, talking, and perceiving.

By contrast, explicit memory helps us recall things that we're  deliberately trying to remember, like the birth dates of distant relatives and  where we parked our car.

"We're always using memory," said associate professor of psychology  Mary Sue Weldon, who has spent most of her career investigating the  differences between implicit and explicit memory. The differences have  implications for learning how the brain is "wired" and for understanding  what happens in the brain physiologically when we remember.

One of the areas of hottest debate today is whether unique brain  structures are dedicated to different memory functions and the degree to  which different memory functions are interdependent. Contributing to the  debate is the use of neuroimaging, specifically functional magnetic  resonance imaging (fMRI), which builds on the static images used by doctors  to diagnose spinal problems, knee injuries, and the like. With functional  MRIs, however, brain researchers track cerebral blood flow as an indicator  of brain activity. Ultimately, some researchers expect to isolate different  areas of the brain that are used in implicit and explicit memory functions.

"It's a sexy idea that is getting a lot of attention right now, but it's  really a problematic approach," said Weldon.

Contact: Mary Sue Weldon--(408) 459-4516 or weldon@cats.ucsc.edu

**Economics**

Does free trade cause job loss in the United States?

For years, union organizers and labor activists have urged consumers  to "buy American" as a show of support for American workers. But does  buying a Volvo really put U.S. autoworkers out of work? Does increasing  foreign competition actually depress U.S. wages?

Economists disagree. At UCSC, labor economist Lori Kletzer is  embarking on a 12-month research project designed to improve our  understanding of the impact of free trade on American jobs.

Kletzer will weigh in on this debate at a prestigious conference  sponsored by the National Bureau of Economic Research. The conference,  titled "Trade and Wages," will take place in February 1998, but Kletzer was  scheduled to outline her research at a preconference planning session April  5\.

Kletzer is approaching the question by focusing on manufacturing job  loss and job displacement rather than wages. "Companies can close their  plants--or greatly reduce employment--as an alternative to lowering  wages," said Kletzer. "So, as a labor economist, I think that looking at job  loss is a better measure of impact."

Kletzer's work will provide an economy-wide picture of the impact of  trade on U.S. jobs, and she also wants to follow the trail of displaced  workers. She suspects there is little retraining or crossover from one  industry to another. In the long run, federal and state retraining programs  don't appear to help much, said Kletzer.

A better understanding of the impact of trade on jobs is key to the  development of policies that will help those who suffer in this era of free  trade, said Kletzer.

Contact: Lori Kletzer--(408) 459-3596 or lkletzer@cats.ucsc.edu

**Sociology**

Sociologist testifies about how to overcome racial bias in jury  selection

Sociologist Hiroshi Fukurai testified twice in superior court recently  about the underrepresentation of racial minorities on California juries. Such  underrepresentation contributes to a criminal justice system that is not  seen as legitimate by racial minorities and the poor, said Fukurai, who  proposed modifications to increase jury diversity.

Among the techniques described by Fukurai to increase minority  representation on juries are:

* Jury de medietate linguae, or "split jury"--In cases where the  defendant is a racial minority, half of the members of the jury are from the  majority group and half are from the minority. England uses the split jury  system, and it was used in the United States until about 100 years ago.

* Hennepin Model--Based on a method used in Hennepin County,  Minnesota, the racial composition of grand juries must reflect the racial  composition of the community.

* Social Science Model--Based on studies of the group dynamics of  jury deliberation, this model holds that to resist the opinions of the  majority group, at least three of 12 jurors must be minorities.

* Cluster sampling with a probability proportionate to size, or PPS  cluster sampling--To counter the effects of residential segregation by race  and socioeconomic status, Fukurai developed this method of using U.S.  census tracts to identify groups of potential jurors, who are then selected  at random within chosen tracts. PPS cluster sampling mandates that an  equal number of potential jurors be selected from each census tract to  ensure that residents from minority-dominant areas are in the pool from  which jurors are selected.

Contact: Hiroshi Fukurai--(408) 459-2971 or hiroshi@cats.ucsc.edu

**Education**

UCSC's Social Sciences Media Lab provides unique learning  opportunity

Tucked away in an editing suite in the Social Sciences Media Lab,  anthropology major Glen Williams put the finishing touches on a videotape  about the intersection of culture and tourism in Nepal. A critique of the  costs and benefits of ecotourism, the video features tourists and Nepalis  discussing appropriate behavior in one of the poorest countries on earth.

Like hundreds of students a year, Williams used the lab's facilities and  staff expertise to expand his educational horizons. The lab offers training in  photography, video, audio recording, and multimedia production for students  in the Division of Social Sciences. Faculty turn to the lab for help preparing  classroom presentations and putting together lab facilities, and an  increasing number are offering two-credit media production labs in  conjunction with courses.

Lab manager Jon Kersey said the lab offers students an opportunity to  express their ideas in a different medium. "Video and photography can allow  people to see things that are very hard to describe in a paper or a book," said  Kersey.

Contact: Jon Kersey--(408) 459-4010 or kersey@zzyx.ucsc.edu

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/04-97/040197-UCSC_Social_Science.html "Permalink to 040197-UCSC_Social_Science")
