---
layout: post
title: The German Predicament&#58; Superpower Or Chastened State?
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

**New Book Explores Germany's Struggle To Reconcile Its History With Its Role As A Modern Global Power**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--As Europe's most important power, Germany has the  economic, military, and political influence to be a major player on the world  scene, yet the country's "burdened history" limits its ability to act.  Unification in 1989 removed the physical scars of the Cold War, but the  question remains: Can Germany reconcile its past with its future and become  a normal country like any other?

This question is explored in the new book The German Predicament:  Memory and Power in the New Europe. Fascinated by Germany's postwar  emergence as a powerful nation and the tension generated by collective  memory, authors Andrei S. Markovits and Simon Reich examine the ways in  which history's shadow haunts Germany's future.

In The German Predicament (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1997),  Markovits and Reich consider the dilemma facing Germany today, and they  weigh the contrasting views of its fate. One view holds that contemporary  Germany has been tamed by the Holocaust and has no drive to expand or  dominate; the other view maintains that Germans have suppressed rather than  obliterated their predatory ways and that Germany's democracy, which was  imposed by the Allies, is fragile.

"Both views are real, and that's where the tension lies," explains  Markovits, a professor of politics at the University of California, Santa Cruz.  "For the Germans, they're damned if they do and damned if they don't. If  they're going to live up to their role as a major power, they will be called on  to act, but then they are subjected to greater scrutiny than any other nation  because of their history. And if they do nothing, they'll be accused of not  pulling their weight as the wealthiest, most powerful nation in Europe."

Germany must not seek to expand its power, but it must recognize and  use its power responsibly, maintains Markovits. Its "ideological  predisposition toward smallness lags behind its increasing structural power,"  write Markovits and Reich, a professor of political science at the University  of Pittsburgh.

"The German Left would like to say 'We're big, but we're just another  Switzerland,' but it doesn't work that way. The United States cannot be  Canada," says Markovits. "There's no exit from this predicament for the  Germans. The contradictions will only become sharper as Germany becomes a  global actor."

Markovits is optimistic about Germany's democracy, which he calls a  "model democracy," but he is less confident about Germany's role as a power  in the European and international arena. Germany's potential sphere of  influence is enormous, yet the German response is "caution and confusion  rather than opportunism and predatory behavior," he writes with Reich. The  source of German constraint is largely internal, they contend, asserting that  the "politics of collective memory" is the biggest factor mitigating the  exercise of German power.

**Biographical information about Andrei Markovits:**

Markovits, who is also a senior associate of the Center for European Studies  at Harvard University, is a leading authority on Germany and Eastern Europe.  His books include The German Left: Red, Green and Beyond and From  Bundesrepublik to Deutschland: German Politics after Unification. He is also a  contributor to the new book The World Reacts to the Holocaust (Baltimore:  Johns Hopkins University Press, 1996), a major new examination of how the  postwar world has dealt with the Holocaust. Markovits coauthored the chapter  on West Germany's reaction.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/03-97/031797-The_German_predicam.html "Permalink to 031797-The_German_predicam")
