---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

![\[Photo of UCSC Early Music Ensemble\]][1]

Members of the UCSC Early Music Ensemble are pictured here (clockwise from top): Chris Pratorius, Kevin Kishimoto, Maggie Tenenbaum, and Hideki Yamaya. The ensemble will perform on December 4 in the Music Center Recital Hall.

**The Music Department presents _Mind My Cows_ and other Great Moo-sic from the Middle Ages through the Early Baroque,** featuring the UCSC Early Music Ensemble on Thursday, December 4, at 8 p.m. in the Music Center Recital Hall. The ensemble, led by professor of music Leta Miller, will perform music of the 14th through the 17th centuries for voice, lute, recorder, keyboards, and more. Professor Miller will discuss the musical content of this concert in a preperformance lecture beginning at 7 p.m. Tickets are $8 general, $5 seniors, $3 students with ID. Call (408) 459-2159 for information.

**Members of the campus community are invited to attend a candlelight vigil** on Thursday, December 4, to remember people who have died as well as celebrate the lives of those who are living with AIDS. The annual vigil is planned to commemorate World AIDS Day, which is celebrated on December 1. Bettina Aptheker, chair of the Women's Studies Department, will speak at the vigil, which takes place at noon in front of McHenry Library.

**The Recreation Office offers quality low-cost fitness and yoga classes** designed specifically for faculty and staff. Use your lunch hour to relax and rejuvenate your mind and body. YOGA: Mondays and Fridays, noon-1 p.m.; STRETCH & STRENGTHEN: Tuesdays and Thursdays, noon-1 p.m. Classes are $4 each or buy a card of ten for $28. All classes are held in the East Field House Activity Room. For more information, call the Recreation Office at (408) 459-2668.

**The Fire Department will be collecting new wrapped toys** to be distributed to local needy children during the holiday season. Please be generous in giving to those less fortunate. Toys may be dropped off at the campus Fire Station or Police Station during regular business hours prior to December 22nd. Why not make your unit's holiday party a toy donation event? For more information, contact Tim Santos.

**The Women In Management Network (WIMN) Sixth Annual Holiday Gift Project** for migrant/low-income children in Santa Cruz County is under way. WIMN works with community agencies to develop a list of children living in migrant farm camps. Each child is asked to request a specific gift--a toy or a much-needed item like a winter jacket or a watch--and then the request is matched with a donor. A flyer will be going out soon to sign up for the age and gender of a child you would like to sponsor. If you prefer to donate money, your donation will be used to purchase a gift for a child who is not matched with a donor. WIMN is also collecting and repairing used bicycles and tricycles for those requesting bikes. For further information, contact Jeanne Gray, or to donate or repair a bike, contact Mary Ann Dewey.

**"Social Consequences of Industrialization ("Maquiladoras") at the U.S.-Mexico Border"** is the title of a talk by Roberto Sanchez, acting associate professor of environmental studies, on Monday, November 24\. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled Ecosystem and Community Health. The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College.

**"Soft Money, Hard Science: Grant Proposals, Readers, and the Shaping of American Social Science"** is the title of a presentation by anthropology professor Donald Brenneis on Wednesday, December 3, in the Oakes Mural Room at noon. The talk is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided.

**"Birth of the God: Views of the Nativity"** is the topic of a presentation by psychology professor Barry McLaughlin on Tuesday, December 2, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of a bag-lunch series, titled Interpretations of God, sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. Hot drinks will be provided. For more information, call (409) 423-8532.

**Crown, Stevenson, and College Eight all have openings for a provost** beginning with the 1998-99 academic year. Candidates must be tenured members of the faculty, have a record of sustained excellence in scholarship and teaching, and proven leadership qualities. Administrative knowledge or experience is preferred. The provost is the academic leader of the college and provides the effective leadership conducive to the creation of a stimulating educational environment for the faculty, students, and staff in the college. The final filing date for applications is January 5, 1998. For a complete job description and information on how to apply or submit a nomination, contact Academic Human Resources at (408) 459-4300.

[1]: http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/art/moo-sic.gif

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-11-24/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 11-24-97")
