---
layout: post
title: Well-Known Botanist Ernest Ball Dies At Age 87
author: Robert Irion
---

![\[Photo of Ernest Ball\]][1]

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Dr. Ernest A. Ball, a well-known botanist and a UC professor emeritus of biology who affiliated with the Santa Cruz late in his career, died on August 30 in Capitola. He was 87.

Dr. Ball was regarded as one of the pioneers of plant tissue culture  research in a career that spanned 40 years. A native of Oklahoma, Dr.Ball earned his B.S. and M.S. from the University of Oklahoma in 1937  and his Ph.D. from UC Berkeley in 1941. He spent most of his academic  career at North Carolina State University. In 1968 he moved to UC  Irvine, serving as a professor of developmental and cell biology until  his retirement in 1977. Dr. Ball relocated to Santa Cruz in 1980 to  continue an innovative research project on the cloning of redwood  trees.

In this project, conducted on campus at Dr. Ball's "Redwood Institute,"  researchers strove to develop genetically superior coast redwood  trees with desirable characteristics, such as rapid growth, trunks free  of branches, and tolerance to heat and dry air. The project received  much attention in the early 1980s as the first successful tissue  culturing of coast redwoods. Today, hundreds of thousands of redwoods  developed with Dr. Ball's techniques are reforesting logged hillsides in  Humboldt and Del Norte Counties in northern California. Many of his  trees also grow in a stand at the UC Santa Cruz Arboretum, as well as  in the Ernest A. Ball Redwood Grove at UC Irvine.

Friends and colleagues are invited to gather from 2 to 4 p.m. on Saturday, September 6, at the Ball family home, 422 Sims Road, Santa Cruz. Contributions are preferred to the UCSC Arboretum  Associates, of which Dr. Ball was a member.

[1]: http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/art/ernest_ball.gif

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/09-97/090497-Noted_botanist_Erne.html "Permalink to 090497-Noted_botanist_Erne")
