---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: Mary Ann Dewey
---

**The UC Santa Cruz Farm and Garden is looking for volunteer docents** to help teach the principles of organic farming and gardening to visitors who tour the Farm and Garden. Farm and Garden docents participate in a range of activities that include tours, public education programs, and other activities that support the Farm and Garden. If you're interested in alternative agriculture and enjoy working with people, consider volunteering as a docent at the 25-acre Farm and the four-acre Alan Chadwick Garden. A docent training will take place on six Thursdays from 1 to 5 p.m., beginning March 13. Students are welcome, and internships are available.

During the training, docents will learn about the philosophies and methods of organic farming and gardening, issues in sustainable agriculture, and the basic principles of leading interpretive tours. Participants will also have an opportunity to do hands-on work in the Farm and Garden's biointensive gardens and fields. After completing the training, docents are asked to lead two tours a month and attend monthly educational meetings. Each docent is asked to contribute a total of four to six hours per month.

A $25 fee covers the cost of materials, a docent manual, and an organic cotton T-shirt. Class size is limited, so advance registration is recommended. Applications and other materials are available from Melanie Mintz at the Center for Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems, University of California, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064-1077, or by calling (408) 459-3248.

**Assistant professors Dan Doak and Daniel Press of the Environmental Studies Department,** 1995 and 1996 recipients, respectively, of Excellence in Teaching Awards, will lead a conversation about teaching in the second of a new quarterly series of events featuring award-winning teachers. The event is scheduled for Monday, February 24, from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in the Porter Fireside Lounge. For more information, call the Teaching Support Office at (408) 459-5091.

**The Emerging International Women's Regime** is the title of a talk by Professor Nuket Kardam of the Monterey Institute of International Studies on Tuesday, February 18. The presentation is part of the ongoing Stevenson Global Security Colloquium, which is held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 110, Social Sciences 1. Faculty, students, and the general public are invited. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-02-17/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 02-17-97")
