---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The second annual Strawberry Shortcake Festival at the Farm and Garden** will take place on Wednesday, April 30, from 4 to 6 p.m. Accompanied by musician/Farm manager Jim Leap on a bluegrass-pickin' guitar and others, the folks at the Farm will serve Farm-made strawberry shortcake and lemonade for a $2 donation to the Farm and Garden. Tours of the Farm and information on the Farm's Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) program will be available. For more information, call (408) 459-3336.

**Independent film director Jennie Livingston will give a talk titled Independent Film: An Inner Circle of Hell** on Monday, April 28, at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. Livingston, best known for her controversial and acclaimed documentary _Paris is Burning_ (1990), will talk about her recent film projects. For more information, call (408) 459-3532.

**The Nature of Nationality: France, Germany, England** is the title of a talk by Verena Stolcke, professor of anthropology at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, on Monday, April 28, from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in 261 Social Sciences 1. The presentation is part of the Spring Colloquium on International, Global, and Comparative Issues, sponsored by the Stevenson Program on Global Security. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**El pasado del futuro/The Future's Past: Latino Ghosts in the American Canon Machine** is the title of presentation by Kirsten Gruesz, assistant professor of literature, on Wednesday, April 30, in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the Spring Colloquium Series, sponsored by the Center for Cultural Studies. Sessions begin at noon, with a 30-40 minute presentation beginning at 12:15 p.m., followed by discussion. The center supplies coffee and tea, and participants are encouraged to bring a bag lunch.

**Introducing a Consultative Experience to Undergraduate Education, or Maybe Teaching Was a Bad Idea** is the title of a talk by Siro Stefanou of the Agricultural Economics Department at Penn State University on Wednesday, April 30. The talk is part of the Spring Quarter Environmental Studies Seminar Series. All seminars are held at 4 p.m. in 148 Porter College. For more information, call (408) 459-2634.

**Update on Chiapas** is the title of a presentation by Professor Adolpho Gilly of the Autonomous University of Mexico in Mexico City on Thursday, May 1, at noon in 134 Cowell College, sponsored by Latin American and Latino studies. For more information, call (408) 459-3232.

**Sexuality and the Discontents of Difference** is the title of a presentation on Thursday, May 1, by Carla Trujillo, director of Women and Graduate Students of Color in Engineering and lecturer in ethnic studies at UC Berkeley. Her talk is part of the Chicano/Latino Research Center's Spring Quarter Colloquium Series titled "Chicana Feminisms." The colloquia are held in the Merrill Baobab Lounge from 4 to 6 p.m. Presentations are followed by discussion and refreshments.

**Professor Henning Bohn of the Economics Department at UC Santa Barbara will talk about "The U.S. International Investment Portfolio and Mean-Variance Optimization"** on Thursday, May 1, at 2 p.m. in 261 Social Sciences 1\. For more information, call the Economics Department at (408) 459-5028.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-04-28/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 04-28-97")
