---
layout: post
title: Awards and Honors
author: UCSC Currents 
---

**Patricia Sullivan,** lecturer in the Education Department, has been awarded a Fulbright fellowship for the year 1997-98. She will be the director of the master's program in teaching English as a foreign language at Bilkent University, a private university of about 10,000 students in Ankara, Turkey. She will be working with Turkish university-level teachers of English to enhance the quality of English language instruction. Sullivan will be teaching linguistics and research methodology in addition to directing the program.

**Nobuho Nagasawa,** assistant professor of art, was named as a recipient of the city of Los Angeles's Design Excellence in Architecture and Public Art awards for the years 1993-97. Nagasawa was recognized for her project at the Vermont Square Branch Library in Los Angeles. Her piece consists of two parts--_Imagination,_ 11 wooden stools carved in the shapes of letters that spell out the word "imagination," and _Banned, Censored, Challenged,_ a glass table onto which Nagasawa sandblasted the titles of books censored in the U.S. between 1895 and 1994. The table also includes a card catalog drawer listing further information on each of the banned books. The pieces remain on display in the Vermont Square library; a prototype of the table is on display at UCSC's University House.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-09-22/awards.htm "Permalink to Awards and Honors: 09-22-97")
