---
layout: post
title: Of Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**An exhibit titled "Silence No More: Remembering the Japanese-American Internment"** is on display at McHenry Library through December 20\. The exhibit documents the history of the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, with a particular focus on California. It includes art and photography created in the internment camps, the internment experience as reflected in Japanese American literature and poetry, and the experience of Pajaro Valley's Japanese American community documented through newspaper clippings of the time. This exhibit is coordinated with the exhibition tour of "A More Perfect Union: Japanese Americans and the U.S. Constitution,"_ _organized by the American Library Association and the Smithsonian Institution, which is currently on display at the downtown public library.

Special highlights of the McHenry exhibit will be the scholarly and artistic contributions of faculty and community members in Santa Cruz, including Jeanne Wakatsuki Houston, Kathy Foley, Alice Yang-Murray, and Nobuho Nagasawa. A reception for the exhibit will be held on October 10 from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in the foyer of McHenry Library. Call (408) 459-4000 for library hours.

**The Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation seeks nominees** for its annual educational scholarship program. Current sophomores or juniors with excellent academic records and with interests in careers in mathematics, the natural sciences, or engineering are eligible. The scholarships cover fees, books, and room and board to a maximum of $7,500 per year. For information, prospective applicants should contact Edie Dahlberg at the Natural Sciences Division.

**Rob Wilson, a visiting professor of literature from the University of Hawai'i at Manoa,** will be speaking on the topic "Creating the Asia-Pacific Along a Honolulu-Tapei Line of Flight" in the Oakes Mural Room at noon on Wednesday, October 8. This lecture kicks off the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. The sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided.

**Don Brenneis, chair of the Anthropology Department, will open the Anthropology Department's Fall Colloquium Series** with a talk on "Dramatic Gestures: Performing the Past in a Fiji Indian Community" on Monday, October 6. The colloquium series takes place on Mondays from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 261, Social Sciences 1. For more information, call (408) 459-2380.

**The Stevenson Program on Global Security begins its Fall Colloquium Series,** titled "Ecosystem and Community Health," with a presentation on "Health Effects of Dioxins" by Dr. James Dwyer of the Institute for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Research at USC on Monday, October 6. The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-10-06/ofnote.htm "Permalink to Of Note: 10-06-97")
