---
layout: post
title: Awards and Honors
author: UCSC Currents
---

A journal article coauthored by Professor **Michael Dine** of the Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics was the 11th-most cited physics paper in the world during March and April, according to the Institute for Scientific Information. Other physicists cited the paper 22 times in that period, indicating that the research is having a strong impact in the field. The paper described conditions under which researchers might find evidence for "supersymmetry," a powerful theory that proposes an unseen but aesthetically pleasing symmetry between different types of particles. The journal _Physical Review Letters_ published the paper on May 6, 1996\. Dine's coauthors were from Stanford University, the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, Ohio State University, and the European Organization for Nuclear Research

More than 200 people gathered on June 6 in the Stevenson Dining Hall to celebrate this year's athletic accomplishments at the 2nd Annual UCSC Athletics Awards Banquet. The award winners are as follows:

Student Athlete Leadership Award: **Alison Shepodd,** senior, captain of women's soccer team.

Male Athlete of the Year: **Matt Humphreys,** senior, all-American on the swimming team and top scorer for UCSC at this year's NCAA Championships.

Female Athlete of the Year: **Stephanie Curwen,** the first player in UCSC women's tennis history to qualify in singles and doubles for the NCAA Championships this year; she advanced to the quarter finals of the doubles championships.

Men's Coach of the Year: **Sean Sullivan,** men's soccer. Sullivan led the Slugs to their best-ever finish of 15-5 and a rank of 4th in the West Region during the season, the highest ranking ever achieved by the team. Over five years he compiled a record of 57-37-3 (.587).

Women's Coach of the Year: **Paul Lester,** women's soccer. In his first season with UCSC, Lester guided the women's soccer team to its best finish ever at 9-5-1 and a rank of 4th in the West Region. The team also broke into the national top 25 teams for two weeks during the season.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-06-23/awards.htm "Permalink to Awards and Honors: 06-23-97")
