---
layout: post
title: Keck Telescope Spies The Likely Building Blocks Of Modern Galaxies
author: Robert Irion
---

**James Lowenthal also will speak in a PRESS CONFERENCE on the  Hubble Deep Field at 11:30 a.m. EST January 16 at the AAS meeting.**

TORONTO, ONTARIO--Acting as the world's most powerful telescopic  tandem, the Hubble Space Telescope and the W. M. Keck Telescope are  starting to unravel the evolutionary histories of galaxies dating  back to when the universe was just 10 percent of its current age.

A year ago, Hubble's most penetrating view into the cosmos-- the Hubble Deep Field--gave researchers a bonanza of opportunities  to explore how galaxies in the preadolescent universe matured into  today's hulking goliaths, including our Milky Way. Now, astronomers  at UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, UC Santa Cruz, have used the  Keck Telescope to analyze 24 of those faint blobby galaxies in  detail.

Their most noteworthy conclusions include the following:

* So many distant objects freckle the Hubble Deep Field that  they probably could not all have grown uniformly into future massive  galaxies. Rather, the variety of shapes and sizes suggests that many  of them merged, to evolve later into the smaller number of "grand  design" galaxies we now see. Others may have faded into the  unobtrusive dwarf galaxies scattered throughout today's universe.
* The distant galaxies were at least as luminous as the Milky  Way but were about one-tenth as large. They created new stars at  rates comparable to the pace of starbirth today, but they were much  less prolific than galaxies that unleashed tremendous bursts of  fresh stars billions of years later. This is among the strongest  evidence to date that rates of star formation have risen and fallen  markedly as the universe has aged.
* Close scrutiny of the starlight from these objects exposes  evidence of carbon, oxygen, silicon, and various metals in the stars'  atmospheres. This means that generations of stellar birth and death  already had occurred, even at the universe's tender age of one to two  billion years.

"We don't know the masses of these objects, but we suspect  some may be low in mass and bright with starbursts, and that they  form the building blocks of more massive galaxies to follow," says  postdoctoral researcher James Lowenthal, lead author of the study.  "But if these galaxies didn't merge together, they would build up into  far too many bright galaxies as the universe evolved--many more  galaxies than we see around the Milky Way today."

Lowenthal, a former Hubble Fellow, presented his group's  research today (January 16) in Toronto at the 189th meeting of the  American Astronomical Society. His coworkers included several  astronomers from UCO/Lick and UC Santa Cruz: David Koo, Rafael  Guzman, Jesus Gallego, Andrew Phillips, Sandra Faber, Nicole Vogt,  Garth Illingworth, and Caryl Gronwall.

For its study, the team used the Low-Resolution Imaging  Spectrograph (LRIS) on the Keck I Telescope for three nights in April  1996\. Exposure times for each of the 24 galaxies varied from two to  four hours. The results were detailed spectra--light spread out  across its component wavelengths. The team used the spectra to  determine the distances to about half of the galaxies. Their  redshifts, a measure of how quickly the galaxies are receding from  earth, ranged from z = 2.2 to 3.4. (A galaxy with a redshift of z = 3  existed at a time about 90 percent of the way back to the Big Bang.)

"We pushed the limit to among the faintest galaxies for which  anyone has attempted to obtain spectra," says Koo. "A lot of other  information naturally falls out after you get distances to the  galaxies, including their sizes and their intrinsic luminosities."

The team used an innovative technique based on the precise  colors of the objects to identify dozens of other galaxies in the  Hubble Deep Field that also may lie at similar distances. However,  the spectra for some were too complex or too noisy to determine  their redshifts easily, and the team has not yet observed the rest of  the galaxies with Keck. If many of them turn out to have redshifts of  about z = 3, then astronomers would need to raise their current  estimates of the population density of galaxies in that epoch by a  factor of 3 or 4.

Lowenthal and Koo note that the Hubble Deep Field certainly  captured only the most intense bursts of star formation during that  slice of the universe's history. Indeed, Hubble's image may depict  what the researchers call the "Christmas tree effect," where bright  individual star-forming blobs come and go within a much bigger-- and largely invisible--structure. Astronomers will need further  spectral signatures to tease out the masses of these remote objects  and their internal dynamics.

"The interpretation of the fates of these galaxies is still very  much open, because this field is so new," Koo says. "Determining  their masses will be critical to knowing how they relate to nearby  modern galaxies."

The UCSC team is part of the Deep Extragalactic Evolutionary  Probe (DEEP), a collaboration of the University of California, Johns  Hopkins, Caltech, and the University of Chicago. DEEP's goal is to use  the light-gathering power of Keck II and a sophisticated new  spectrograph, now being built at UCSC, to obtain the redshifts of  about 15,000 galaxies as a probe of the distant universe.

UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, headquartered at UCSC,  oversees both the Lick Observatory east of San Jose, California, and  the UC share of the Keck Observatory.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/01-97/011697-Keck_Telescope_spie.html "Permalink to 011697-Keck_Telescope_spie")
