---
layout: post
title: Astronomer Sandra Faber To Speak On Successes Of Hubble Space Telescope
author: Robert Irion
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--When poor vision hobbled the Hubble Space  Telescope, UC Santa Cruz astronomer Sandra Faber and several  colleagues suggested that a set of high-tech corrective lenses would  restore the telescope's keen eyesight. They were right, and in the  last three years Hubble has rewarded astronomers--and the public-- with one stunning view of the cosmos after another.

On Friday, April 18, Faber will treat a Santa Cruz audience to  some of those results in a public lecture. Her talk, "The Latest  Images from the Hubble Space Telescope: Delight at the End of the  Tunnel," will begin at 8 p.m. in Classroom Unit 2 on the UCSC campus.  Admission is free.

Faber has been involved in building, testing, and observing with  the Hubble Space Telescope since the project's inception. She is a  team member for the telescope's Wide Field Planetary Camera, one  of Hubble's most frequently used and important observing  instruments. During her lecture, Faber will draw from her extensive  collection of Hubble images to paint a vivid picture of how the  telescope has helped to revolutionize astronomy since its repair in  1993.

An astronomer at UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, Faber  came to UCSC in 1972. She is now University Professor of astronomy  and astrophysics, a position that signifies eminent research and  teaching accomplishments. She also is a member of both the National  Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and  Sciences.

Her talk is part of the Delphasus Lecture Series, funded by a  private gift to UCSC to increase public appreciation of issues in  astronomy and physics. For more information, call the Department of  Astronomy and Astrophysics at (408) 459-2844.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/96-97/03-97/033197-Lecture_on_Hubble_S.html "Permalink to 033197-Lecture_on_Hubble_S")
