---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"An Evening with John Muir"** is the title of a solo performance by Frank Helling on Saturday, November 8, at 7:30 p.m. in the Cowell College Fireside Lounge. Geologist, botanist, explorer, writer, philosopher, and preservationist, John Muir lived life to its fullest, and Frank Helling brings the great mountaineer to life. His acclaimed rendering of Muir in "A Visit with John Muir, the Scootcher of a Lifetime" has been performed before hundreds of people throughout California. An active adventurer, naturalist, and environmental activist, Helling immerses himself in the role as he relives some of Muir's most profound and meaningful experiences. The cost is $3/students and $5/general. Tickets available in advance at the Recreation Office and at the door. For more information, call (408) 459-2800.

**The 1997 Graduate and Professional School Day,** sponsored by the Career Center, will take place Friday, October 31, from 10 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the West Field House, College Eight. Representatives from 100 schools around the country will be available to discuss their programs and hand out information and applications. Workshops will also be held on preparing for graduate admission tests and completing applications.

**Artists and craftspersons are invited to showcase their work and contribute to the Women at Work Retreat Scholarship Fund**. Donations of items such as jewelry, pictures, photos, ceramics, wood work, clothing, toys, holiday ornaments, and cards are needed for the annual Crafts Fair, which will be held December 3 and 4. Donations are due by Monday, December 1\. For more information, call Connie Croker at (408) 459-2713 or Mary-Beth Harhen at (408) 459-3650.

**"Cinema: The Highest Stage of Capital (So Far)"** is the topic of a talk by Jonathan Beller of American studies on Wednesday, October 29, in the Oakes Mural Room at noon. The presentation is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Fall Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunches; coffee and tea are provided. 

**"The Health of Coastal Marine Ecosystems"** is the topic of a presentation by assistant professor of biology Peter Raimondi on Monday, October 27. The talk is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security Fall Colloquium Series, titled "Ecosystem and Community Health." The colloquia are held from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 131, Cowell College. 

**"Queer Theories, Early and Late"** is the title of a daylong mini-conference on Thursday, October 30, from 9:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 159, Kresge College, sponsored by the Queer Theory Research Cluster. Keynote speakers Lauren Berlant (University of Chicago), Judith Halberstam (UC San Diego), Ralph Hexter (UC Berkeley), and Karma Lochrie (Loyola University) will explore the interrelations of pre- and postmodern work in the theory and history of sexuality, primarily in Europe and the Americas. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-10-27/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 10-27-97")
