---
layout: post
title: Lecture on Carnivores
author: Tim Stephens
---

## "Carnivores And The Balance Of Nature" Lecture By UCSC Professor

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The public is invited to a free lecture on the role of carnivores in natural ecosystems, presented by James Estes, a biologist with the U.S. Geological Survey and the University of California, Santa Cruz. The lecture, sponsored by the UCSC chapter of the scientific research society Sigma Xi, will be held Thursday, Dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 105, Oakes College, on the UCSC campus.

Estes has been studying the role of sea otters in the coastal ecosystem of Alaska's Aleutian archipelago since the early 1970s. His research has documented how sea otters maintain the coastal kelp forests by controlling populations of sea urchins and other animals that graze on kelp. The kelp forests in turn provide food and habitat for a broad range of species.

Recent observations by Estes and his coworkers, published in the Oct. 16 issue of the journal Science, revealed a startling decline in sea otter populations, followed by increases in sea urchins and the collapse of the kelp forests. The researchers traced the decline in sea otters to predation by killer whales, which shifted their diet to sea otters after the populations of their usual prey, seals and sea lions, decreased dramatically.

These new findings, which have received widespread attention from both scientists and the popular press, demonstrate the importance of long-term ecological field studies, Estes said.

In his lecture, entitled "Carnivores and the Balance of Nature," Estes will draw on these and other findings to discuss the role of carnivores in regulating the organization of ecological communities in general.

Directions: Oakes College is near the west entrance to the UCSC campus, located one mile up Empire Grade from the main entrance at the intersection of Bay and High Streets. From Empire Grade, turn right onto Heller Drive; at the first stop sign turn right onto Koshland Way. Park in the College Eight lots and walk to Oakes College at the end of the road. Room 105 is on the first floor of the main building.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/11-98/estes.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Lecture on Carnivores")