---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Public Hearing:** On the Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR) on the Interdisciplinary Sciences Addition Project--an addition to Natural Sciences 2, which will provide space for the Environmental Studies, Astronomy, and Physics Departments. The hearing will be held on May 13 from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Student Center Upper Cafe. The DEIR is available at the reserve desks at McHenry and the Science Libraries. For more information, call Chris Aldecoa at (408) 459-4407.

**The Arboretum is celebrating Mother's Day with discounts, fresh flowers and plants, and a tour.** Norrie's Gifts is offering a 10 percent discount to faculty, staff, and students on gift items May 8­10. Fresh floral bouquets from the Arboretum, priced from $6 to $15, will be available May 5­10; and on Mother's Day, Sunday, May 10, a docent will lead a tour of the gardens at 11 a.m. Norrie's is open 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday­Saturday, 1 to 4 p.m. on Sundays (on Mother's Day they will open at noon). For more information, call (408) 423-4977.

**The 11th annual faculty and staff Prediction Walk/Run** is Thursday, May 21, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the East Field. To participate, each person on a team of four predicts his/her time to run or walk a distance of 1/2 mile at a comfortable pace, and the team captain predicts the time the team will need to complete the 2-mile race. The team with the actual time closest to their prediction wins. Space is limited to 65 teams; the entry deadline is May 18. Free T-shirts. Voluntary donations of $5/person to help support women's athletics are greatly appreciated. For an entry form or more information, call (408) 459-2531.

**KZSC**\--the campus radio station--will be holding its 25th Anniversary Fund Drive May 11 through 22.

**"Energy and Justice: Thought Experiments from an Indian Laboratory"** is the title of a talk by Professor Shiv Visvanathan, one of India's foremost anthropologists of science and the environment, on Thursday, April 30, at 4 p.m. in 261 Social Sciences 1. Professor Visvanathan is the author of _Organizing for Science: The Making of an Industrial Research Laboratory_ (Oxford University Press, 1985); _A Carnival for Science: Essays on Science, Technology and Development_ (Oxford, 1997) and _Foul Play: Chronicles of Corruption in India_ (Bombay: Banyan Books, 1998). He will be on campus from Monday, April 27, to Thursday, April 30; to meet him, e-mail Ravi Rajan. For more information, contact the Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies.

**"Gender Equity and Sexual Violence: Dilemmas for Education in the New South Africa"** is the topic of a presentation by AnnMarie Wolpe, a visiting scholar in the Department of Sociology at UC Berkeley, on Monday, April 27, from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in Room 204, College Eight Red Building. The talk is part of the spring Sociology Colloquium. For more information, call (408) 459-4306.

**Summer child care for school-age children** will be available at UCSC Family Student Housing from June 29 through September 4. The program runs from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and features swimming at the campus pool, guest artists, field trips, sports, lunch, and snacks. For more information, call Conne Lester at (408) 459-4085.

**"Shadows of the Lost Object" is the title of a presentation of abstract and surrealist animated films** that will be shown on Tuesday, April 28, beginning at 4:30 p.m. in the Kresge Town Hall. Tyrus Miller of the Comparative Literature Department at Yale University will lead the presentation. For more information, call the Center for Cultural Studies.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/04-27/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 04-27-98")
