---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The staff of the University Library Map Room invite the campus community to a reception honoring founding map librarian Stanley Stevens **and celebrating the arrival of the "Stanley D. Stevens Honorary Map" on Thursday, June 18, at 4 p.m. in the Donald T. Clark Courtyard of McHenry Library. Stevens's colleagues in the Western Association of Map Librarians arranged to have the Dibblee geologic map of Mt. Wilson named in his honor. Cookies and lemonade will be served as well-wishers congratulate Stevens on this latest accolade in a long and distinguished career.

**Gwendolyn Morgan,** **coordinator of the Diversity Education Program, will give a culture talk** focused on the African American celebration of Juneteenth on Friday, June 19, from 12:10 to 12:50 p.m. in the Health Center Conference Room. The celebration of Juneteenth dates back to the time of the Civil War when many Texas slaveholders refused to tell their slaves the news of the Emancipation Proclamation in January 1863 and kept them in slavery until Union troops arrived in Houston on June 19, 1865. Today's Juneteenth celebrations include barbecues, dancing, and sharing stories and memories. For more information about the talk, call (408) 459-5087.

**Interested in forming a vanpool from the west side of Santa Cruz?** TAPS is gathering input on the level of interest in a west side vanpool. In order to seriously consider it, there need to be approximately 15 staff, faculty, and/or students interested in making a commitment and volunteer drivers who can meet necessary driving and medical requirements. The parking costs associated with vanpooling are considerably less than A permits. For more information, contact Candice at (408) 459-5495.

**Users of primary source materials can now access ArchivesUSA on the Web.** Three major information resources are integrated in ArchivesUSA:   
* A newly compiled directory of manuscript repositories, giving full addresses, including e-mail addresses and URLs, opening hours, and details of holdings and areas of special interest.   
* Collection records from the National Union Catalogue of Manuscript Collections (NUCMC).
* Information gathered and compiled by the Library of Congress from the 1950s to the end of 1995, covering some 75,000 collections. Each record also includes the LCUs subject and name indexing of the collection.   
* Names and detailed subject indexing of over 42,000 collections whose finding aids have been published separately in the National Inventory of Documentary Sources in the United States (NIDS).   
ArchivesUSA will be updated quarterly on the Web and annually on a CD-ROM. To access ArchivesUSA, go to [archives.chadwyck.com/.][3]

**Hemispheric Dialogue invites undergraduates interested in Latin America and Latino studies (LALS) to submit papers** (1,000 to 1,500 words) about why they study LALS, why they consider area studies (Latin American studies) and/or its linkages to ethnic studies (Latino studies) important, and/or what suggestions they have to enhance the ways LALS has been rethinking and revitalizing area and ethnic studies in the last few years. Hemispheric Dialogue is a joint project of Latin America and Latino studies (LALS) and the Chicano and Latino Research Center (CLRC), supported with funding from the Ford Foundation.

There will be one first prize of $200 and two honorable mention prizes of $75 each. Winners will be introduced at a Hemispheric Dialogue colloquium on "Revitalizing Area Studies" in October and will be expected to organize another colloquium in November during which they will present their papers. Papers must be submitted before Monday, September 21, 1998, to Hemispheric Dialogue, Faculty Services, Merrill College, UCSC. Winners will be announced the week before the October colloquium. 

Students are strongly encouraged to take advantage of the summer to write and submit their essays. Since the papers will be read blind, every submission should include the essay title, student's name, year of study, field of study, and address on a cover sheet. The essay title should be repeated on the first page.

[3]: http://archives.chadwyck.com/

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/06-15/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 06-15-98")
