---
layout: post
title: Distinguished Teachers
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UCSC Honors Three Professors For Teaching

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Three professors in the Division of Social Sciences at the University of California, Santa Cruz, were honored today (Thursday, October 8) for their excellence in teaching.

The recipients of the Division of Social Sciences' 1998 Distinguished Teaching Awards are:

- Nancy Chen, assistant professor of anthropology
- David Harrington, associate professor of psychology
- Nirvikar Singh, professor of economics

The award, which recognizes outstanding undergraduate teaching in the social sciences, carries with it a $500 cash prize and an engraved plaque that features a "golden apple."

Social Sciences Dean Martin Chemers announced the recipients at the annual division convocation this morning. Recipients were selected by Chemers from a list of recommendations compiled by a faculty committee based on nominations put forth by department chairs. The committee was chaired by Daniel Press, Pepper-Giberson Associate Professor of Environmental Studies. The annual awards were established in 1991 by former dean Eugene Garcia.

"Excellent undergraduate teaching is at the heart of what we have to offer at UCSC, and these three individuals represent the best of our faculty," said Chemers. "It gives me great pleasure to honor their accomplishments and to recognize the high standard they set for us all."

Social sciences is one of four academic divisions at UCSC; the others are arts, humanities, and natural sciences. Each division is home to a wide range of departments and programs. Social sciences includes anthropology, community studies, economics, education, environmental studies, Latin American and Latino studies, legal studies, politics, psychology, and sociology.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/10-98/3profs.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Distinguished Teachers")
