---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"The Reign of El Niño" **will be the topic of a talk by Gary Griggs, professor of earth sciences and director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, when alumni gather at India Joze on Wednesday, February 11, at noon for their monthly luncheon meeting. Professor Griggs will describe the El Niño process, its impact on the California coast, and how it relates to global warming. All are welcome. To make a reservation or for more information, call the Alumni Office at (408) 459-2530.

**"Emerging Latina and Latino Artists"**\--a group exhibit of paintings, photographs, and sculpture by current students and recent graduates from UCSC and other Bay Area universities--will be on display at La Galeria de Casa Latina, from Friday, February 13, to Friday, February 27th. The gallery is located on the lower level of the Merrill College Library and is open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. A reception for the artists will be held on Friday, February 20, from 4 to 6:30 p.m.

**"Water Markets in California"** is the title of a talk by Brent Haddad, assistant professor of environmental studies, on Monday, February 9. The presentation is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts." The colloquia take place on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. 

**Tyrus Miller, professor of comparative literature, English, and film studies at Yale University,** will give a presentation titled "Fragments of Damaged Life: Critical Theory Between Modernism and Everydayness" on Wednesday, February 11, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the ongoing Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. 

**"The New Political Economy of North American Integration: What It Means for California"** will be the topic of a discussion led by Raul Hinojosa, research director of the North American Integration and Development Center in the School of Public Policy and Social Research at UCLA, on Friday, February 13, at 2 p.m. in Thimann 1. For more information, call the Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies at (408) 459-2833. A reception for faculty and graduate students will be held at the Merrill provost's house at 4 p.m.; light refreshments will be served.

**Melanie Mayer,** emerita professor of psychology and psychobiology, will present a lecture for the Washington State Historical Society on March 1 in Tacoma. The talk, "Belinda Mulrooney Carbonneau, Yukon Entrepreneur: One Hundred Years Ago Today," will be based upon her forthcoming biography with coauthor Robert N. DeArmond.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/02-09/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 02-09-98")
