---
layout: post
title: Friends Of Long Marine Lab Announce Summer Membership Drive
author: Tim Stephens
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--UC Santa Cruz's Long Marine Laboratory is holding a "Fishing Friendsy," a major membership drive from June 24 through September 30\. A membership with the Friends of Long Marine Lab offers many benefits, including free visits to Long Marine Lab for an entire year, discount purchases at the gift and book shop, invitations to special events, and opportunities to join in a variety of exciting activities and field trips for children and adults.

Friends of Long Marine Lab also have the satisfaction of knowing they help sponsor the lab's public education programs. Every year as many as 40,000 students and other visitors learn about marine research and marine and coastal environments through a visit to Long Marine Lab. The Friends of Long Marine Lab also help fund the marine mammal research programs, annual student research awards, and the development and operation of the new Marine Discovery Center.

Members receive the quarterly IMS Newsletter, which is full of information about UCSC's Institute of Marine Sciences, IMS-affiliated researchers and their projects, volunteer opportunities, and programs members can join. Programs for members include Ocean Explorers, an action-packed summer day camp for children, as well as lectures and other educational and social events.

Annual member dues are $20 for students and seniors, $35 for an individual membership, and $50 for a family membership. Other membership categories with additional special benefits are also available.

Long Marine Lab is located at the end of Delaware Avenue, just past Natural Bridges State Beach--a five-minute drive from downtown Santa Cruz and the UCSC campus. For more information about memberships, contact Sonia Deetz at (408) 459-4568.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/06-98/062298-Friends_of_Long_Mar.html "Permalink to 062298-Friends_of_Long_Mar")
