---
layout: post
title: Making The News
author: UCSC Currents
---

UCSC was featured prominently in coverage of the National Ocean Conference held June 11-12 in Monterey. **Gary Griggs,** director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, and **James Gill,** vice chancellor for research, were both quoted in an article in the _San Francisco Chronicle_ about marine science facilities in the Monterey Bay region. Griggs and **Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood** were quoted in the _San Jose Mercury News_ on the same topic and in the _Santa Cruz County Sentinel_ speaking about UCSC's plans for a new Center for Ocean Health at Long Marine Lab. Greenwood was also featured in local TV coverage of the conference and related events, including the groundbreaking ceremony for the National Marine Fisheries Service lab at LML; stations KSBW, KCBA, and KNTV were among those covering these events. Griggs and biologist **Donald Potts** were featured in a _Sentinel_ article about the conference. **Lora Lee Martin,** director of the UC Monterey Bay Education, Science and Technology (MBEST) Center, was quoted in an article on ocean policy in the _Monterey County Herald._ Several UCSC marine biologists--assistant professor of biology **Peter Raimondi,** professor of biology **Lynda Goff,** and adjunct professor of biology **James Estes**\--were quoted in an article in _Metro Santa Cruz_ about kelp harvesting. Oceanographer **Ken Bruland,** professor of ocean sciences, was featured in an article in the _Sentinel_ about his research on the role of trace elements such as iron in determining the productivity of ocean waters. And an article focusing on the UC MBEST Center ran on the front page of the Sunday real estate section in the _Sentinel._

The _Wall Street Journal_ ran a story on research by **Manual Pastor** of Latin American and Latino studies. He studied the effect of the boom in international trade on a number of Los Angeles-area communities and found that Latino and African American communities tended to be the trade losers. Pastor proposed education and community development corporations for people in the trade-loser neighborhoods. "The task is not to resist the winds of international change," said Pastor, "but rather to assure that such winds swell all sails.". . . Pastor was also quoted in a _San Francisco Examiner_ article on rising poverty rates in older San Francisco Bay Area suburbs and a proposal to share tax revenues among richer and poorer communities.

**Craig Reinarman's** book _Crack in America: Demon Drugs and Social Justice_ (coedited with Harry Levine) received a lengthy review in the _Journal of the American Medical Association._ The reviewer found the book a "provocative," "well-coordinated collection" that provides "ample ammunition for those of us who argue against drug wars and for new responses that focus foremost on reduction of harm to society at large and to the marginalized populations most at risk from drugs and the crossfire of drug wars."

**Ray Collett,** director emeritus of the UCSC Arboretum, was featured as one of 10 "plant pioneers" profiled in the 100th anniversary issue of _Sunset_ magazine. The article noted that under Collett, the Arboretum acquired the best collection of Southern Hemisphere plants north of the equator.

Film and video's **Eli Hollander** and arts dean **Edward Houghton** were quoted in a story in the _Watsonville Register-Pajaronian_ on the news of a new department in film and video being formed.

Astronomer **Erik Asphaug,** a research associate in UCSC's Institute of Tectonics, received widespread coverage of his research on asteroid collisions, appearing on TV and radio, including CNN and the _Today Show._ The story was also covered in the _Santa Cruz County Sentinel,_ and an Associated Press article was widely published.

Librarian Allan Dyson was cited in the _Santa Cruz County Sentinel_ for a story on the recent establishment of the Rosario Mazeo archive in Special Collections.

Professor of physics **Joel Primack** was quoted in articles in the _Oakland Tribune_ and the _San Francisco Chronicle_ commenting on recent findings regarding the mass of neutrinos, subatomic particles that may make up some of the "missing mass" or "dark matter" of the universe.

Admissions director **J. Michael Thompson** and **Chancellor Greenwood** were quoted in an article in the _Santa Cruz County Sentinel_ on the feasibility of making college preparatory courses available online. UCSC brought together representatives from industry and public education to discuss how to extend course offerings to students from high schools where advanced courses are unavailable. . . . **Chancellor Greenwood** was also quoted in an article in the _Chronicle of Higher Education_ on a congressional investigation into the improper use of federal research funds by the University of California. In response to concerns that federal money is used to support foreign students who then go back to their native countries with their cutting-edge knowledge, Chancellor Greenwood said, "Sixty to 80 percent of foreign students who come here stay. There is little evidence of hijacking of U.S. technology."

UCSC's Farm & Garden apprenticeship program was the subject of a story in the _Salinas Californian._ Quoted for the story were program coordinator **Ann Lindsey** and apprentices **Eligio Dimas** and **Page Allison.**

A recent _New York Times_ headline read, "Toreador, Look out for the Floor (It's Now Hydraulic)." For the story, which discussed the Houston Grand Opera's MTV-like version of _Carmen,_ the reporter turned to opera expert **John Dizikes,** who noted that the show displays a kind of extravagant pageantry common throughout operatic history. . . . Dizikes was also tapped by the _Los Angeles Times_ for a story on the appeal of extreme sports to men in the 18-35 age bracket.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/06-29/makenews.htm "Permalink to Making the News: 06-29-98")
