---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The draft environmental impact report for the Bay Tree Bookstore and Graduate Commons project** will be the subject of a public hearing on Friday, January 30, at 5 p.m. in Classroom Unit 2. Members of the public and public agencies are invited to comment on the draft report at the hearing. They may also submit written comments until February 2. For more information or to purchase a copy of the draft report, call (408) 459-4760. Copies of the report are also available for review at McHenry Library.

**"Water Sharing and Water Conflicts: Bargaining and Property Rights"** is the topic of a presentation by economics professors Nirvikar Singh and Alan Richards on January 26. The presentation is the first of the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts." The colloquia take place on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Art professor Sharon Daniel will give a talk on "Modeling Interpretation: Interactive, Collaborative, Computer-Based Art"** on Wednesday, January 28, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the ongoing Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**"Left Conservatism" is the focus of a one-day workshop** that will address the emergence of a division in leftists within and without academia and the historical, political, ideological, and theoretical character of left conservatism. The workshop will take place on Saturday, January 31, in Room 240, College Eight. Participants include Jonathan Arc and Paul Bové, professors of English at the University of Pittsburgh; UCSC women's studies professor Wendy Brown; Judith Butler, professor of comparative literature and rhetoric at UC Berkeley; and Joseph Buttigieg, professor of English at the University of Notre Dame. The workshop is structured to encourage discussion and debate. For more information, call the Center for Cultural Studies at (408) 459-4899.

**Anthropology professor Ray DeMallie from Indiana University** will give a talk titled "George Sword Wrote These: Lakota Culture as Lakota Text" on Monday, January 26, as part of the Anthropology Department's winter colloquium series. The colloquia are held on Mondays from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 261, Social Sciences 1. For more information, call the Anthropology Department at (408) 459-2380.

**Two recent changes to the Family School Partnership Act apply to university employees.** Under the changes, which took effect January 1, university employees may take off up to 40 hours each year to participate in the school activities of their children in kindergarten or grades 1 through 12. Previously, state law allowed employees to take off up to 40 hours per "school year." Also, employees who have custody of a child attending a licensed child day care facility are now entitled to take up to 40 hours off work each year to participate in the facility's activities. An employee must give reasonable notice of the planned absence and may be asked to provide certification from the child's school. Covered activities include PTA meetings, parent/teacher conferences, and field trips. If accrued leave is not available, employees may use leave without pay.

**The Latin American and Latino Studies (LALS) Program and the Chicano/Latino Research Center (CLRC) invite applications for at least two advanced research fellows **to participate in a new program, titled "Hemispheric Dialogue on Social and Cultural Theory and Practice in the Americas"--supported by the Ford Foundation's "Crossing Borders: Revitalizing Area Studies" program initiative. Applicants should have a Ph.D. or equivalent professional experience, as well as demonstrated research capacity and expertise on issues related to transnational organizing in the Americas. Fellows will be in residence for up to three months and will receive a $3,000-per-month stipend. Nominations and applications are due on April 15. For more information on the program or how to apply, contact Associate Professor Sonia E. Alvarez, Politics Department, University of California, Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/01-26/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 01-26-98")
