---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Teams Up To Create Organic Farm At Former Fort Ord
author: [Jennifer McNulty, Jim Burns]
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA­The University of California, Santa Cruz, has leased a 130- acre parcel at the former Fort Ord military base to Dynasty Farms, Inc., of  Salinas, which will operate a certified organic mixed-vegetable farm on the  site.

Dynasty will hold the lease for a minimum of five years, said Lora Lee  Martin, director of UC's Monterey Bay Education, Science, and Technology  (MBEST) Center at Fort Ord. "This agreement reflects MBEST's emerging role  in the regional economy and contributes to the growth of the organic  farming industry in the Monterey Bay region," said Martin. "This unique  collaboration between MBEST, UCSC's Center for Agroecology and  Sustainable Food Systems, and Dynasty Farms, which is a major national  distributor of produce grown on the Central Coast and elsewhere, promises  to bring new opportunities and jobs to an expanding marketplace."

As part of the agreement, Dynasty will make several acres of the  parcel available for university research projects that are in keeping with  the company's overall farming objectives. Opportunities for student  internships will also be available.

"This particular piece of ground and the tie-in with the university  really presents an opportunity for large conventional growers and organic  growers to come together and hopefully build the marketplace for  sustainable agriculture," said Tom Russell, president of Dynasty Farms.  "We'll be able to share information, and this gives us a chance to be on the  cutting edge of new technologies. It's in everybody's best interest if  sustainable agriculture grows."

Technical advisers who will oversee operations at the site include UC  Cooperative Extension, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, as well as UCSC's  Center for Agroecology, which has earned an international reputation for its  leadership in the development of sustainable growing practices.

The leased parcel is located between Blanco and Reservation Roads in  Monterey County. Dynasty joins the growing list of MBEST tenants, which  include Systems West, a satellite weather-technology company; UCSC  Extension, which offers classes in environmental remediation and other  topics; and the Pacific Cetacean Group, a nonprofit education and research  organization. The university also recently signed a lease with the Don Chapin  Company, Inc., also from Salinas, to operate an asphalt and concrete  recycling facility on a 5-acre parcel for up to five years.

For Dynasty, the farming lease represents a major commitment to an  expansion of the company's activities in organic agriculture, which had  previously made up only about 1 percent of its business, said Russell.  Dynasty currently contracts with about 45 growers in the Salinas Valley, in  addition to farmers in Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, and Mexico, most of  whom use conventional growing techniques. With the MBEST property,  Dynasty expects to be overseeing a total of nearly 1,400 acres of certified  organic farmland in California and Arizona.

"By harvesting two crops a year on most of the land, we'll actually be  operating nearly 2,500 crop acres," added Russell, who sells to large retail  chains, including Nob Hill, Raley's, and Safeway. Dynasty's sister company,  Pacific International Marketing, manages annual produce sales of about $85  million, he said.

Organic farming emphasizes the use of materials and practices that  enhance the natural ecology, including crop rotations, compost, and  biological pest controls, without the use of synthetic pesticides and  fertilizers. Certified organic produce has been verified as organically grown  by an independent third party that enforces minimum standards as described  by law.

The market for organic produce has grown exponentially in recent  years, with retail sales nationally jumping from $1.25 billion in 1991 to  $3.5 billion in 1996. The number of acres farmed organically in California  nearly doubled from 1993 to 1996, when a total of 13,785 acres were in  organic production, according to California Certified Organic Farmers. The  Central Coast region has led the way, with sales of organic produce in  Monterey County nearly doubling to $21 million between 1995 and 1996.

"We've seen a tremendous number of our conventional produce  customers express an interest in selling more organic produce," said  Russell, whose company is poised to load organic produce on the same trucks  they fill every day with conventional product. "Our goal isn't to compete  with existing organic shippers of organic product but to expand business  with mainline retailers and to offer a year-round volume that will really  build the presence of organic produce in the market."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/04-98/041398-UCSC_teams_up_to_st.html "Permalink to 041398-UCSC_teams_up_to_st")
