---
layout: post
title: Kenneth S. Norris Memorial
author: Tim Stephens
---

## UCSC's Memorial To Kenneth S. Norris Oct. 24

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The life of naturalist Kenneth S. Norris, who died in August at the age of 74, will be celebrated in a memorial tribute at the University of California, Santa Cruz, on Saturday, October 24, from 1 to 5 p.m. The memorial will be held in the Music Center Recital Hall.

Norris, a professor of natural history at UC Santa Cruz, was a highly influential teacher and an acclaimed researcher, best known for his work on communication and social relations in dolphins and whales. He was also the founder of the University of California Natural Reserve System.

Family, friends, former students, and colleagues will gather at UCSC for the memorial, planned as a joyous tribute to Norris and a celebration of his life. The event is open to the public. Those who plan to attend are asked to let the organizers know they will be coming by sending e-mail to martha@zzyx.ucsc.edu or a postcard to Norris Memorial, UC Santa Cruz, Institute of Marine Sciences (A317 EMS), 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064.

The memorial will begin with a formal program of distinguished speakers and music from 1 to 2:30 p.m., followed by refreshments, an open microphone, and informal gatherings and presentations.

The speakers will include UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood; Norris's brother Robert, professor emeritus of geology, UC Santa Barbara; William N. McFarland, Friday Harbor Marine Laboratory; Sam Ridgway, senior scientist, Navy Marine Mammal Program, San Diego; Roger Samuelsen, chief of staff and director of administration, UC Merced, and director emeritus of the UC Natural Reserve System; William Doyle, professor emeritus of biology and director emeritus of the Institute of Marine Sciences, UCSC; Shannon Brownlee, senior writer, U.S. News & World Report; Stephen Gliessman, Alfred E. Heller Professor of Agroecology at UCSC; Karl S. Pister, UCSC chancellor emeritus; and Craig Schindler, president of Project Victory.

Music will be provided by guitarist Eric Jarmea; singer and songwriter Alisa Fineman; Dan Warrick, a former student of Norris and now an editor at Health magazine; and singers Fred Carlson and Suzie Norris with "The Intensive Carollers."

Randall Jarrell, head of the UCSC Library's Regional History Project, said she expects the memorial to be a "gathering of the old clan," bringing together people from all over the world who knew and were influenced by Norris.

"He was a remarkable scientist and human being, and he touched a lot of lives," said Jarrell, who is editing Norris's oral history memoirs and a companion volume of oral history interviews with his colleagues and former students.

Additional information about the memorial is available on the World Wide Web at [http://www.realsurf.com/KenNorris/](www.realsurf.com/KenNorris/).

Directions to the Music Center Recital Hall: Take Empire Grade road to the west entrance of the UCSC campus (there is a sign and a kiosk at the entrance) and turn right onto Heller Drive. (The west entrance is 1 mile up Empire Grade from the main entrance to campus at the intersection of Bay and High Streets.) Take Heller Drive past Oakes College and College Eight. At the fourth stop sign, turn right into the Performing Arts complex, then turn left into the parking lot. The Recital Hall is adjacent to the parking lot, overlooking the Great Meadow.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/10-98/norris.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Kenneth S. Norris Memorial")
