---
layout: post
title: Titanic lecture
author: Barbara McKenna
---

## Photographer/titanic Cameraman Present Lecture And Slide Show

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A photographer who documented the expedition that discovered the Titanic and subsequently served as cameraman and expedition leader for feature films about the ill- fated luxury liner will present a slide show and lecture on Tuesday, November 10, at 8 p.m. at the University of California, Santa Cruz in the Cowell College Dining Hall.

Photographer Ralph White, who is this year's Chapman-Smith Lecturer at Cowell College, is a world-renowned deep sea photographer. He has more than 30 years' experience in filming and photographing the ocean, negotiating depths and environments requiring intensive diving and technological skills. A cameraman for the National Geographic Society for more than 25 years, White has hundreds of television and motion picture credits to his name. His work has included the filming of whales, sharks, active undersea volcanic vents, and a number of shipwrecks, including one under the Arctic ice cap.

White documented the expedition that found the wreck of the R.M.S. Titanic in 1985. Since then, he has participated in the recovery of over 1400 artifacts from the Titanic's remains and holds the world record for the most submersible dives to the Titanic, which rests 12,000 feet below the ocean's surface. In 1991, White was a cameraman for the 1991 IMAX feature film Titanica and in 1995 White was expedition leader and cameraman for Jim Cameron's Academy Award-winning Titanic.

White has received numerous awards, including the Grenoble Film Festival gold medal, and Golden Eagle, Cindy, and Golden Halo awards. Knighted in the Order of Saint Lazarus and the Order of Constantine, White has also been awarded the prestigious "NOGI" from the Underwater Society of America for his life time achievement in underwater photography. White also commanded the elite Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department Photographic Unit.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/10-98/titanic.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Titanic lecture")