---
layout: post
title: March 12 Lecture Features Prominent Women's Studies Professor
author: Barbara McKenna
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The culture we live in and the media messages we are exposed  to form a myriad of attitudes that we tend to internalize. For most women in our  society these attitudes include displeasure with their bodies, difficulty in  expressing their ideas, fears of violence against themselves and their children,  and a fear of expressing anger. When women learn to think independently of these  cultural and media messages, they can make transformations personally and  politically--shedding critical and destructive perspectives and counteracting  them in society, explains noted feminist scholar Bettina Aptheker.

Aptheker, a professor of women's studies at the University of California,  Santa Cruz, will address the subject in the lecture, "Teaching Women About  Themselves: Toward Personal Healing and Political Transformation." Her talk is  part of the 1997¯98 Humanities Lecture Series, sponsored jointly by UCSC's  Humanities Division and the Museum of Art and History. It takes place from 7 to  8 P.M. on Thursday, March 12, at the Museum of Art and History at the McPherson  Center, 705 Front St. The talk is free and open to the public. A reception  follows.

A leading scholar in the field of women's studies and a popular lecturer on  and off campus, Aptheker will discuss the field of women's studies and the  ways in which work in it can spark personal and societal changes. "Many  disciplines rely on experience-based or empirical research as a basis of study.  Psychology and sociology are examples. But in these fields the experiences are  not those of the researchers themselves but of those whom they study. In  women's studies we are using our own experiences as a method of work for  understanding the subordinated position of women in society. We teach women  how to learn from their own experiences, and those of other women, and trust in  their judgments. From this we generate theories about women's lives and ways  of changing our conditions." Through this approach, Aptheker explains, women  find their own voices and their own direction. "That process," she says, "is both  personally healing and politically effective."

Aptheker has been a prominent activist for more than 30 years in the  women's, peace, civil rights, and lesbian movements. A member of the UCSC  faculty since 1980, she is author of several books, including Tapestries of Life:  Women's Work, Women's Consciousness and the Meaning of Daily Experience. She  has been honored for her work in teaching and activism by numerous groups,  most recently by the Santa Cruz County Women's Commission for her  extraordinary contribution to improving the status of women. For more  information on the lecture, call (408) 459-2696 or (408) 429-1964.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/03-98/030498-Mar_12-lecture_fea.html "Permalink to 030498-Mar_12-lecture_fea")
