---
layout: post
title: UCSC's Marc Mangel
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UCSC Professor Named To National Scientific Advisory Board

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Marc Mangel, a professor in the Environmental Studies Department and the Institute of Marine Sciences at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has been appointed to the Scientific Advisory Board of the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS) in Santa Barbara.

Mangel will serve on the board for a three-year term. The mission of NCEAS is to advance the state of ecological knowledge, and scientists conduct collaborative research on major fundamental and applied problems in ecology. The center facilitates integrative research aimed at synthesizing existing data and information, and making these data available to researchers, resource managers, and policy makers addressing important environmental issues. It fosters new techniques in mathematical modeling, dynamic simulation, visualization of ecological systems, and digital mapping of complex ecological phenomena.

Mangel, who earlier this year was honored for his work in statistical ecology, is the coauthor of The Ecological Detective: Confronting Models with Data, which lays out computationally intensive statistical methods for ecologists. His research focuses on the ecological implications of natural variation within populations of organisms, and he specializes in salmonid and krill life histories and insect-plant interactions.

The Science Advisory Board's 19 members provide advice on a variety of topics to the director, and they review proposals for activities at the center. Nominations for new board members are open in December of each year.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/12-98/mangel.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: UCSC's Marc Mangel")