---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"Histories of the Future" is the title of a conference** on Friday, April 10, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. The panelists are members of a larger group of scholars who are assembling a tool kit for interpreting prophetic, millennial, and futurological discourse. Their work was developed in a two-quarter seminar in 1996-97 at the Humanities Research Institute and is forthcoming as a collection of essays, _Histories of the Future._ Panelists are Joseph Masco (anthropology, UC San Diego), "Notebook on Desert Modernism: From the Nevada Test Site to Liberace's 200 Pound Suit"; Daniel Rosenberg (history, UC Berkeley), "An Eighteenth-Century Time Machine"; Kathleen Stewart (anthropology, University of Texas, Austin), "Trauma Time: Where History Meets the Future and Time Stands Still"; and Anna Tsing (anthropology, UCSC), "How to Make Resources in Order to Destroy Them and Then Save Them on the Savage Frontier." For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**"An Out Gay Man Goes to Washington, D.C., and Comes to UC to Tell Us All About It"** is the title of a talk by Joel Ginsberg on Friday, April 10, from noon to 1:30 p.m. at the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender Resource Center, located behind Crown and Merrill Colleges. Ginsberg, a northern California native and UC alum, will discuss his eight years working in Washington. All are welcome. For more information, call (408) 459-4385.

**A free screening to identify carriers of Tay-Sachs Disease--an inherited, fatal, infant disorder--will take place on April 28 and 29.** This simple blood test offered by the UCSF Medical Genetics Department identifies healthy individuals who carry the recessive gene for this condition. Prevention of this disease is only possible if one's carrier status is known. The carrier rates are: 1/30 in those with Jewish, French-Canadian, or Cajun ancestry; 1/150 in the general population. Anyone can be a carrier. At the last UCSC screenings in 1996, 202 were tested and 6 carriers were identified and counseled. For more information, call Linda Foley, UCSF Tay-Sachs Program coordinator at (510) 658-5568.

The campus screenings will be held:   
Tuesday, April 28:
* 10:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., Cowell Student Health Center  
* 3:30 to 6:30 p.m., Stevenson College Silverman Conference Center   

Wednesday, April 29
* 10:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., Cowell Student Health Center   

No appointments necessary; open to all 17 and older except pregnant women.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/04-06/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 04-06-98")
