---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"Globalization: The Challenge and the Opportunities" is the title of a talk by Gita Sen,** professor of economics and social sciences at the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, India; visiting professor at the Center for Population and Development Studies at Harvard University; and Research Coordinator on Alternative Development Frameworks--Development Alternatives with Women for a New Era. The talk will take place on Thursday, April 23, from 4 to 6 p.m. in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. Dr. Sen's voice has been influential in the international women's movement and on environmental questions. She was the 1994 Volvo Environment Prize Laureate for her outstanding contribution to the rich body of scholarship pertaining to patterns of resource exploitation as affected by household- and community-level partitioning of rights and ownership, and successfully connecting it to crucial national and international policy debates on population growth, the status of women, and sustainable development. Following the talk, a reception will be held at the Merrill Provost's House; reservations are requested. To RSVP for the reception or for more information, call the Center for Global, International & Regional Studies at (408) 459-2833.

**All are invited to attend the Campus Leadership Program's 15th Retreat,** titled "Campus Growth and Student Voice: Where do you fit in?" on Monday, April 27, 4:30 to 8 p.m. in the Stevenson Dining Hall. The topic is student driven, growing out of suggestions given by students at the last retreat. Speakers will be Chancellor Greenwood, Cowell alum and assistant vice chancellor of Physical Planning Construction Frank Zwart, Merrill alum and associate director of Housing Peggy Asuncion, and Porter alum and assistant vice chancellor of Student Affairs Gail Heit. Input will be in the form of task group reports generated at the end of the retreat. 

**Daniel Correia,** a leader of the Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra (MST), will give a talk on **"Brazil's Landless Workers' Movement"** on Wednesday, April 22, at 7 p.m. in B206 Earth and Marine Sciences Building. The MST has enabled 200,000 landless families to settle on seven million hectares of idle land, and it was awarded the "alternative Nobel Prize" for peace in 1991. The talk is sponsored by the Brazilian Research Cluster, Stevenson Global Security Program, Latin American and Latino Studies, Environmental Studies, and Community Studies. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Last call for summer housing: **The NEH-supported summer institute "Environmental and World History 1550-2000", directed by Prof. Edmund Burke III, is still seeking summer accommodation for participants. The institute will be held at UCSC from June 22 - July 24 , 1998. If you have a house or apartment you would like to rent, please contact Caroline Berger.

**Back problems?** The Recreation Office has scheduled a Yoga Back Shop Saturday, April 25, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Martial Arts Room at the East Field House. The Yoga Back Shop is designed especially for people with common, recurring or recovering back problems. The instructor is Tripura Anand. Cost is $20 (UCSC students and recreation card holders), $25 all others. For more information, call Karol at (408) 459-2668.

**HIV/AIDS pilot study research funds are available from the UC San Francisco** AIDS Clinical Research Center (ACRC), a component of the UCSF AIDS Research Institute (ARI). The deadline for the next funding cycle is Monday, June 1. Further application deadlines have been set for October 1, 1998, and March 1, 1999. Applicants can submit studies in basic science, epidemiology, behavioral science, as well as clinical trials. Predoctoral students involved in AIDS research with faculty mentors are also eligible to apply. For further information and applications, contact Mr. Layne Ethington.

**UC San Francisco AIDS Clinical Research Center is also seeking faculty members who would like to be included in a database of peer reviewers** for the Pilot Study Program. Peer reviewers confidentially fill out a one-page form briefly addressing six categories about the merits of a proposed pilot research project (generally 10-15 pages in length) that is within their field of expertise. Each proposal is reviewed by several reviewers and is finally ranked for funding by the Dean's AIDS Advisory Committee to the ACRC. To receive a survey form that identifies your field(s) of expertise or for further information about the Pilot Study Program, contact Mr. Layne Ethington as indicated above.

**Paul Whitworth,** actor, director, and professor of theater arts, will speak on Shakespeare Santa Cruz at the monthly meeting of Lifelong Learners on Sunday, April 26, at noon in Kresge 159. For more information, call (408) 459-4468.

**The Center for Cultural Studies spring colloquium series continues** with a talk by Brian Massumi of the Humanities Research Centre at the Australian National University titled "The Brightness Confound: Vision at the Limit" on Wednesday, April 22, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/04-20/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 04-20-98")
