---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"Endangered Landscapes," an exhibit of photographs** by Christo Morris, who is completing a double major in art and environmental studies, is on display at the Science Library through May 4. The show includes photographs of Mono Lake, the tropical forests of Costa Rica, and the redwood forests of coastal California and Oregon. For the hours of the Science Library, call (408) 459-2050.

**RESCHEDULED: "The Literary Destruction of L.A."** will be the topic of a talk by urban social critic Mike Davis on Monday, March 16, at 4 p.m. in the Kresge Town Hall. Davis, who teaches at the Cesar Chavez Center for Chicana and Chicano Studies at UCLA and at the Southern California Institute of Architecture, is the author of _City of Quartz: Excavating the Future in Los Angeles,_ which analyzes labor, religious, gang, penal, architectural, literary, and cultural industry forces in the city. 

**"Dilemmas of Himalayan Waters" **is the title of a talk by sociology professor Ben Crow on Monday, March 16, from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. This is the final presentation in the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts."

**The 12th annual Women at Work Retreat** will take place on Thursday and Friday, May 21 and 22, at the Saint Francis Retreat in San Juan Bautista. All nonprobationary full-time and part-time career staff in any job classification up to and including PSS Grade 2 are eligible to attend. The cost is $85, which includes meals and overnight accommodations. A limited number of scholarships are available for those not funded by their units. For an application, call Mary Beth Harhen at (408) 459-3650; for questions about eligibility, call Christina Melgares at (408) 459-4475.

**Open Studios, the winter quarter exhibit of student artwork,** will take place at the Baskin Visual Arts Studios on March 17 from noon to 4 p.m. For more information, call the Art Department at (408) 459-2272.

**The Department of Sound and Image of the School of Fine Arts at the Catholic University of Portugal is seeking to fill two faculty positions** for the 1998 academic year. The program aims to provide a comprehensive education in the media arts, with special emphasis on multimedia and the application of digital technology in the creation of sound and images. Fluency in either Portuguese or Spanish is necessary. Screening will begin in March 1998. All applicants should be available in mid-September 1998 for orientation and settlement in Portugal. Submit a letter of application, resume, names, addresses (e-mail if available) and telephone numbers of three references to: Kurt Stewart UNIVERSIDADE CATOLICA PORTUGUESA, Centro Regional do Porto, Dept. Som e Imagem, 1327 Rua Diogo Botelho, 4150 Porto, Portugal. 

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/03-16/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 03-16-98")
