---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"Jury Trials and Race"** is the topic of a talk by sociologist Hiroshi Fukurai at the monthly meeting of UCSC Lifelong Learners on Sunday, May 16, in Room 159, Kresge College. The meeting begins at 11 a.m. and the talk will start at noon. For more information, call (408) 459-4968.

**"Comparative Capitalism in an Era of Globalization"** is the title of a talk by Peter Hall, professor of government at the Center for European Studies at Harvard University, on Monday, May 11, from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. The talk is the first of what will be an annual memorial lecture named for politics professor Richard Gordon who died in 1996. For more information, call (408) 459-2505.

**Ien Ang, professor of cultural studies at the University of Western Sydney, Nepean,** will speak on "Living in Translation: Beyond Identity, Hybridity and Diaspora" on Wednesday, May 13, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Spring Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. 

**Reminder: The Farm & Garden begins a six-week docent training program on May 14.** The training will take place on six consecutive Thursdays from 1 to 5 p.m. Docents will learn about organic farming and gardening methods, issues in sustainable agriculture, and the basic principles of leading interpretive tours. A $30 fee covers the cost of materials, a docent manual, and a Farm & Garden organic cotton T-shirt. After completing the training, docents must volunteer at least six hours per month and attend monthly educational meetings. For an application and more information, call (408) 459-3248.

**Summer child care for school-age children at UCSC Family Student Housing** starts June 29 and continues until September 4. The program features visiting artists, campus field trips, swimming at the campus pool, nature walks, arts and crafts, and sports. Hours are Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. For more information, call (408) 459-4085.

**Reminder: There will be a public hearing on the Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR)** on the Interdisciplinary Sciences Addition Project--an addition to the east end of Natural Sciences 2. The hearing will be held on Wednesday, May 13, from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Student Center Upper Cafe. The DEIR is available for review at the reserve desks of the McHenry and Science Libraries. For more information, call (408) 459-4407.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/05-11/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 05-11-98")
