---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**In celebration of Gay Pride Month,** there will be an end-of-the-year BBQ for queer and queer-friendly staff, students, and faculty on Tuesday, June 9, at the Women's Center from 3 to 7 p.m. There'll be great grillables, games, beverages, and more. (The gods and goddesses promise no rain.) For more information, call (408) 459-4385.

**The Farm & Garden Market Cart **will open for the season on Tuesday, June 16, from noon to 6 p.m. The cart will have salad greens, flowers, strawberries, carrots, beets, herbs, and other vegetables, and the selection will expand as summer progresses. Market Cart will continue every Tuesday and Friday from noon to 6 p.m. through late October. For more information, call (408) 459-3240.

**AIDS Fund-raising Walkathon: **Join colleagues from UC Berkeley, UC San Francisco, and UC Office of the President and be a part of the University of California team on Sunday, July 19, at the San Francisco AIDS Walk benefiting the San Francisco AIDS Foundation. Last year, the University of California team raised $57,879 and was the seventh largest fund-raising team. The 10-kilometer walkathon begins and ends in Golden Gate Park. Sign-in begins at 9 a.m., opening ceremonies are at 10 a.m., and the walk begins 10:30 a.m. There is no registration fee. To register for the University of California Team, contact Karen Ernst at the Office of the President.

**Over 300 faculty and staff attended the 11th annual prediction run/walk/crawl** May 21. Two teams tied for first place by covering the two-mile course in the exact time they predicted. They were Team Talamantes (Rick Shoe, Richard Ehrhardt, John Moffat, and Ignacio Camarillo) and the Night Timers (Juan Cano, Martha Aguilar, Joe Bayuga, and Rachel Stroup). Seventy-seven teams of four participated in the event sponsored by OPERS, Bay Tree Bookstore, and Human Resources.

**The Advanced Training Institute in Madras (Chennai) is looking for faculty and supervisors** for an Advanced Training Institute for Information Technology being set up in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India--with foreign collaboration from the private sector--for students with graduate and postgraduate degrees and for specialized training for professionals from industry. For more information about the positions and how to apply, contact Professor J. P. Raina.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/06-08/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 06-08-98")
