---
layout: post
title: Long Marine Lab Open House
author: Tim Stephens
---

## Long Marine Lab's 19th Annual Open House Oct. 11

SANTA CRUZ, CA-Long Marine Laboratory's annual open house offers fun for the whole family and an exciting opportunity to learn about ocean life and marine science. This year's open house, sponsored by the Institute of Marine Sciences at the University of California, Santa Cruz, runs from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday, October 11.

Touch tanks, slide shows, children's activities, food, and music are among the attractions at the open house, which draws thousands of visitors to the lab every year. Admission is free. Long Marine Lab overlooks Monterey Bay at the western edge of Santa Cruz. Shuttle buses will bring people to the lab from a parking area at Texas Instruments, 2300 Delaware Avenue.

The Joseph M. Long Marine Laboratory, a marine-research facility operated by UC Santa Cruz, opened in 1978. The lab's researchers work on a wide range of ocean science projects, including studies of Monterey Bay's unique marine environment. The lab's education programs for schoolchildren and the general public draw more than 30,000 guests each year.

Highlights of this year's open house include: - Viewing of the lab's marine mammals, including dolphins and sea lions. - Talks, videos, and slide shows by researchers at UCSC's Institute of Marine Sciences. - Open research labs with microscopes, marine invertebrates, and other sea creatures. \- An aquarium and touch tanks with intertidal animals. - A "children's corner" with marine-oriented activities for kids, plus face painting. \- Tours of the Marine Discovery Center currently under construction. - Live music by the jazz quartet Crosswinds. - Food and refreshments from local restaurants.

The event is accessible to those with disabilities; people needing special arrangements should call the lab in advance.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/09-98/lml.htm "Permalink to Long Marine Lab Open House")