---
layout: post
title: Preview Day at UCSC
author: Jim Burns
---

## UC Santa Cruz To Host 'Preview Day' For Prospective Students

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Preview Day at the University of California, Santa Cruz--held each fall for prospective students, their parents, and counselors--will take place on Saturday, October 17, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.

The day's activities will include student-led campus tours of UCSC's eight residential colleges and workshops on financial aid, Educational Opportunity Programs, and the transfer program. Representatives from the campus's academic departments will also be on hand to provide information and answer questions.

Lunch will be available for purchase, and music and entertainment will be provided.

Registration will take place from 8:30 to 9:45 a.m. at the campus's Music Center. During registration and throughout the morning, representatives from the eight colleges, student affairs departments, and the recreational office will be available to answer questions.

Reservations for Preview Day are not necessary. For more information about Preview Day activities, contact UCSC's Office of Admissions at (831) 459-4008.

Preview Day visitors may also wish to attend a special campus event that evening. Celebrating 25 years together, the Kronos Quartet will perform at 8 p.m. in the Music Center Recital Hall. To purchase tickets to the concert, call the campus Ticket Office at (831) 459-2159.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/09-98/preview.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Preview Day at UCSC")