---
layout: post
title: Chicano/Latino Theme House
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UCSC Dedicates New Chicano/latino Theme House

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A celebration of Chicano/Latino culture will mark the dedication on Friday, October 9, of a new Chicano/Latino Theme House at Merrill College at UCSC. The noon festivities will include music, a performance by UCSC's Grupo Folklorico Los Mejicas, and remarks by members of the campus community.

Casa Chavez-Menchu is home to 43 undergraduates, most of whom are first-year students. Casa Chavez-Menchu is named after Cesar Chavez, founder of the United Farm Workers, and Guatemalan activist Rigoberta Menchu, who received the 1992 Nobel Peace Prize.

The dedication extends UCSC's efforts to promote diversity among its student body by offering a residential option for students eager to preserve, explore, and promote Chicano/Latino culture. Students of any ethnic background are eligible to reside in Casa Chavez-Menchu.

"Casa Chavez-Menchu is another example of UCSC's efforts to make the university an inviting and supportive environment for all students," said Francisco Hernandez, vice chancellor for student affairs, who will speak at the dedication on Friday. "Diversity enhances the Merrill College community and enriches the campus as a whole."

"Casa Chavez-Menchu offers social, political, spiritual, and academic support to Merrill's Chicano/Latino students, but anyone can live there," said Willie Cruz, a UCSC senior and one of two residential assistants living in the residence hall.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/10-98/casa.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Chicano/Latino Theme House")