---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The University Library will hold a sale of surplus maps and LP records** on Saturday, April 18, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the foyer of McHenry Library. Over 2,000 maps will be available, including superseded world and foreign maps, road and tourist maps, and other geographical materials. A small selection of local-area and California maps will also be offered. In addition, a large selection of free USGS topographic maps will be available (excluding western states); many are printed on acid-free paper, making them ideal for wrapping paper and craft projects. Maps will be individually priced, with many offered as low as 25 cents each. Over 2,000 classical LP recordings will be offered, covering all periods but with special strengths in early, baroque, and contemporary music. Orchestral and chamber music are equally represented, and the collection is in mint condition. A small number of nonclassical titles includes early jazz, light listening, and show tunes. LPs will generally be priced at $2 per disc.

**OPERS will hold a forum for students, faculty, and staff** **on the referendum-approved facilities** on Tuesday, April 14, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Kresge College Seminar Room. The architects and members of the Fitness Center Planning Committee will be there to describe the referendum projects and estimated time lines, present a model and elevations of the Fitness Center, and answer questions.

**Interested in getting involved in AIDS Ride 5**\--the May San Francisco-to-LA bike ride to raise funds for health care and social services for those with AIDS/HIV? Contact Jennifer Austin at (408) 459-4679 or Deb Abbott at (408) 459-4385.

**An exhibit titled "The Academy of Lagado: Science and Satire in the Age of Reason"** will be on display in the foyer of the Science Library during spring and summer quarters. Focusing on Jonathan Swift's depiction of a scientific institute, this exhibit explores the serious and the satirical aspects of science in the 18th century. For the hours of the Science Library, call (408) 459-2050.

**Lynn Hunt, Annenberg Professor in the Department of History at the University of Pennsylvania,** will speak on the topic "Beyond the Cultural Turn" on Wednesday, April 15, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. Hunt will discuss the book she is writing on the impact of the cultural turn on history and sociology and suggest new directions for historically oriented research in the social sciences. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Bruno Latour, professor at the Centre de Sociologie de l'Innovation, Ecole Nationale Superieure des Mines, Paris,** an internationally known innovative thinker in the analysis of technoscience, will visit the campus April 16 and 17. He will give a talk titled "On Yet Another Difference between Science and Politics" on Thursday, April 16, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Learning Center. A lunch discussion seminar from noon to 2 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room on April 17 will center around Latour's new work for a book _Pandora's Hope: Essays on the Reality of Science Studies._ For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**The Center for Cultural Studies spring colloquium series kicks off** with a talk by Greta Slobin, associate professor of Russian literature, titled "Can a Diaspora Come Home? Russia 1917-1987" on Wednesday, April 15, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/04-13/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 04-13-98")
