---
layout: post
title: Mexican Music Lecture
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## Mexican Folk Music Featured At Lecture At UCSC

SANTA CRUZ, CA--In collaboration with San Jose's Mexican Heritage Corporation, the University of California, Santa Cruz, is proud to announce "Sones de Mexico," a special lecture/demonstration featuring folk musicians and scholars from Mexico. The event will be held on Wednesday, November 11, from 4 to 6 p.m. at Stevenson Dining Hall on the UCSC campus. The presentation, which will be conducted in Spanish, is free and open to the public.

The son is a distinctive genre of traditional Mexican music characterized by strong cross rhythms and improvisation that is essential to its instrumental, lyrical, and dance elements. The son is found throughout Mexico with notable regional differences in instrumentation and performance style.

Participants include Los Camperos de Valles, a folk ensemble specializing in sones huastecos, and Chuchumbe, an urban ensemble from southern Veracruz that specializes in sones jarochos. In addition, two scholars from Mexico will accompany the group. Armando Herrera is the director of culture in San Luis Potosi, and Antonio Gracia de Leon is an ethnomusicologist from the University of Veracruz. Artemio Posadas, senior scholar and director of the East Bay Center for the Performing Arts, is the artistic director of the presentation.

The presentation will be conducted as a roundtable discussion hosted by Olga Nájera-Ramírez, associate professor of anthropology; John Schechter, associate professor of music; Guillermo Delgado, a lecturer in Latin American and Latino studies; and Russell Rodriguez, a graduate student in anthropology who performs traditional Mexican music.

Stevenson College is hosting the event; cosponsors include the Chicano/Latino Research Center, the Latin American and Latino studies program, the Anthropology Department, and the Student Affairs Division.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/11-98/sones.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Mexican Music Lecture")