---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Having problems with your two-wheeler?** Come down to the Recreation Office porch at the East Field House and have the expert bike maintenance specialists check it out. Drop-in bicycle maintenance will be open for the campus community on Fridays from 2 to 5 p.m. January 16 through March 13\. For further information, contact Matt Brower at (408) 459-2806.

**Life is too short to pass up good chocolate!** February is the month to support the 1998 Women at Work Retreat by purchasing See's chocolates at the office. If you would like to help with sales, contact Kim Hughes or (408) 459-2713.

**Sociologist Craig Reinarman will talk about his book _Crack in America: Demon Drugs and Social Justice_** at the Capitola Book Cafe on Monday, January 12, at 7:30 p.m. The Book Cafe is located at 1475 41st Avenue, Capitola, and can be reached at (408) 462-2536. Reinarman will also be interviewed on the radio the same day, at noon on KUSP 88.9 FM and at 3 p.m. on KOMY 1340 AM.

**The University Library is offering free online research workshops** this winter providing an introduction to some of the many Internet-based resources available to researchers. Open to students, staff, and faculty on a space-available basis. For more information or to enroll in workshops, contact Deborah Murphy.

**Communications & Technology Services offers computer-related classes** free of charge to the campus community. They include topics such as e-mail, Internet, Excel, Word, Web Page Creations. They are filled on a first-come basis and you must register to attend.

**The 2nd Systemwide Diversity Conference** will be held April 20-21 at the Doubletree Hotel­Mission Valley in San Diego. The theme for the conference is "Diversity Through Equal Opportunity: New Affirmative Action Tools and Strategies for the 21st Century." The registration fee for the conference is $150 prior to February 1 and $175 after February 1\. The conference is open to all but is most relevant for staff or faculty who are involved in employment diversity, rather than student- or curriculum-related issues. 

**The Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series kicks off with a talk by Jacqueline Brown,** assistant professor of anthropology, titled "The Black (Feminist) Atlantic: Gender, Space, and Race in Diaspora Theory and Practice" on Wednesday, January 14, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Re-Entry Services has changed its name to STARS--Services for Transfer and Re-Entry Students.** The name change reflects an expansion of the office's responsibilities to include the expanding transfer student population. The office will continue to provide, coordinate, and publicize support services for re-entry students, and Corinne Miller will continue to serve as director. Services for Transfer and Re-Entry Students (STARS) is located in 103 Classroom Unit Building, and office hours are Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/01-12/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 01-12-98")
