---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The Committee on Regents' Professors and Lecturers is soliciting nominations for 1998-99. **The program brings distinguished men and women--ordinarily from nonacademic careers--to the university for an academic quarter or less. Nominations should originate from academic units and be reviewed by the appropriate divisional dean prior to submission. The deadline for nominations is February 27. For more call Linda Mueller at (408) 459-4689.

**"The Asian Financial Crisis: Can Anyone Manage Global Finance?"** is the title of the talk economics professor Michael Dooley will give at the first meeting of a new faculty seminar/speaker series on globalization, sponsored by the Center for Global, International, and Regional Studies. The meeting will be held on Thursday, January 22, at 6 p.m. at the Merrill Provost's House. Light refreshments will be served. 

**An evening of slides and stories by climber Warren Harding,** the first person to ascend Yosemite's El Capitan and many other of Yosemite's "Big Walls," will take place on Saturday, January 24, at 7:30 p.m. in the Classroom Unit. In his presentation, titled "Whatever Happened to Warren J. Harding? Downward Bound: The Rise and Fall of a Rock Climbing Star," Harding will share a glimpse of the golden age of climbing. Tickets are $4/student and $6/general, available in advance from the UCSC Ticket Office, (408) 459-2159, and at the door. The event is a benefit for the UCSC Adventure Outings Scholarship Fund. For more information, call (408) 459-2806.

**Research physicist Michael Riordan will talk about his book _Crystal Fire: The Birth of the Information Age_** at the Capitola Book Cafe on Wednesday, January 21, at 7:30 p.m. The book, part of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation's Technology Series, describes the history of the transistor and the microchip with a focus on the scientific underpinnings The Book Cafe is located at 1475 41st Avenue and can be reached at (408) 462-4415. Riordan will be interviewed on the radio the same day at 3 p.m. on KOMY 1340 AM. The following day, Thursday, January 22, Riordan will give a talk on "The Invention of the Transistor" in Thimann I at 4 p.m. as part of the Physics Department Colloquium. The talk is aimed at electrical engineers and computer types as well as physicists. 

**The Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series continues with a talk by Noel Sturgeon,** of the Women's Studies Department at Washington State University, titled "'The Power is Yours, Planeteers!' The End of the Cold War and Contemporary Environmentalism in Children's Popular Culture" on Wednesday, January 21, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**"Feminist Theology, Feminist Politics: Deconstructing God the Patriarch"** is the topic of a presentation by history professor Marilyn Westerkamp on Tuesday, January 20, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of a bag-lunch series, titled Interpretations of God, sponsored by the Lutheran Campus Ministry. Hot drinks will be provided. For more information, call (409) 423-8532.

**HIV/AIDS pilot study research funds are available from the UCSF AIDS Clinical Research Center (ACRC),** a component of the UCSF AIDS Research Institute (ARI). The deadline for the next funding cycle is February 2. Applicants can submit studies in basic science, epidemiology, behavioral science, as well as clinical trials. Predoctoral students interested in getting involved in AIDS research are also eligible to apply. For further information and applications, contact Mr. Layne Ethington by phone, (415) 476-8857.

ACRC is also looking for faculty members who would like to serve as peer reviewers for its Pilot Study Program. Each proposal is reviewed by several reviewers and is finally ranked for funding by the Dean's AIDS Advisory Committee to the ACRC. To receive a survey form that helps identify your field(s) of expertise or to get further information about the Pilot Study Program, contact Layne Ethington (see above).

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/01-19/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 01-19-98")
