---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The Slug women's water polo team **finished second at the Collegiate III Nationals held in Claremont, California, May 1-3. To get to the final match against the University of Redlands, the Slugs defeated last year's runner-up, Occidental College, 11-9 in overtime. UCSC's **Steve Hanson** was named coach of the year. For the complete story, go to the United States Water Polo (USWP) Web site.

**"Women of Wit: Humor Saves Lives!"** \--a dynamic participatory workshop by nationally acclaimed stand-up comedian Patsy Bishop--will take place at the Women's Center on Thursday, May 7, from 6:30 to 9 p.m. Space is limited; pre-register by calling (408) 459-2072.

**"Social Change in the South African Countryside? Land and Production, Poverty and Power"** is the title of a presentation by Henry Bernstein of the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London on Monday, May 4, from 12:30 to 2 p.m. in Room 204 of the College Eight Red Building. For more information, call the Sociology Department at (408) 459-4306.

**"Our Science/Our Selves: Biology as a Body of Knowledge"** is the title of a talk by Scott Gilbert, professor of biology at Swarthmore College, on Thursday, May 7, at 4 p.m. in Room 159 Kresge College. Gilbert's textbook, _Developmental Biology,_ is widely used in universities; he speaks about biology, history, and culture in a way that is accessible across all academic divisions. Professor Gilbert will also lead a seminar titled "Biology and Metaphor" on Friday, May 8, from noon to 2 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room.

**Ravi Rajan, assistant professor of environmental studies, **will give a talk on "Bhopal: Erasure, Vulnerability, and the Chronic Disaster" on Monday, May 4, from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in Room 221, Natural Sciences 2. For more information, call the Anthropology Department at (408) 459-4306

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/05-04/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note")
