---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**The Arboretum is available to faculty, staff, students, and alums for weddings **and other selected celebratory events. The Arboretum gardens themselves are a beautiful setting, and the meeting room in the Horticulture Building and the adjacent patio are available as well. The meeting room holds 90 people and has a sound system. For information on cost and availability, contact Nancy Moore at the Conference and Summer Housing Office at (408) 459-5092 or by e-mail at nmoore@housing.ucsc.edu.

**The Bike Co-op is having a free bike maintenance day on Bike to Work/School Day,** May 21, between 6:30 a.m. and 6 p.m. As an added bonus there will be free breakfast and live music at the Bike Co-op from 6:30 to 10 a.m. Bicycle parts will be 25 percent off for the day as well. The bike co-op is a student-owned, student-operated, nonprofit cooperative, located at the Student Center. For more information abut the free bike maintenance day, call (408) 457-8281; for more information about other activities going on during Bike-to-Work Week.

**"Women of the East, Women of the West: Representations of Pacific Women on Cook's Voyages"** is the title of a talk by Margaret Jolly, senior fellow and convenor of the Gender Relations Project in the Department of Pacific and Asian Studies at the Australian National University, on Tuesday, May 19, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. She will also lead a seminar on Wednesday, May 20, also at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room, on "Grounded and Traveling Identities: Tradition, Nationalism, and Tourism in the Contemporary Pacific." For more information, contact the Anthropology Department at (408) 459-2380.

**Are deer damaging your garden?** The Arboretum in now selling light-weight, high-strength, virtually invisible deer fencing at competitive prices. The fencing was developed and is produced by Benner's Gardens of New Hope, Pennsylvania. The Arboretum is currently offering a 5 percent introductory discount on orders. Stop by for a brochure or contact the Arboretum at (408) 427-2998.

**Jonathan Stratton, associate professor of communication and cultural studies at Curtin University of Technology in Perth, Australia,** will speak on the topic "Diaspora is to Multiculturalism as Migration is to Assimilation" on Wednesday, May 20, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the Center for Cultural Studies Spring Colloquium Series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Reminder: Monday, May 18, is the deadline to enter the 11th annual faculty and staff Prediction Walk/Run. **The event is Thursday, May 21, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the East Field. To participate, each person on a team of four predicts his/her time to run or walk a distance of 1/2 mile at a comfortable pace, and the team captain predicts the time the team will need to complete the 2-mile race. The team with the actual time closest to their prediction wins. Space is limited to 65 teams. Free T-shirts. Voluntary donations of $5/person to help support women's athletics are greatly appreciated. For an entry form or more information, call (408) 459-2531.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/05-18/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 05-18-98")
