---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Meet conductor Nicole Paiement and learn about her life and work.** In celebration of Women's History Month, Paiement, associate professor of music and conductor of the University Orchestra, will be interviewed by violinist Valerie Chase on Thursday, March 5, in the Cowell Student Health Center Conference Room at 12:10 p.m. For more information, contact the Diversity Education Program at (408) 459-5087. To find out about other activities planned for Women's History Month, go to the Diversity Education Program's March schedule.

**Plan to hold your meeting or class in the Arboretum's conference room.** The room holds 90 people and has a sound system, VCR and monitor, drapes, tables, kitchenette (with food service available), ample parking, and an outside patio area adjacent to the conference room--all surrounded by the beautiful Arboretum. For information on cost and availability, call (408) 427-2998.

**"Women and Water in Senegambia"** is the title of a talk by UCLA geography professor Judith Carney on March 2. The presentation is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts." The colloquia take place on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**"The Crisis of the Humanities at the Latin American Fin-de-Siecle"** is the title of a presentation by literature professor Juan Poblete on Wednesday, March 4, at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the ongoing Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/03-02/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 03-02-98")
