---
layout: post
title: Library Lecture Series
author: Barbara McKenna
---

## Library Offers Behind-the-scenes View Through Exhibit And Lecture Series

SANTA CRUZ, CA--If they could speak, the books we check out of the library would have some tales to tell, each scratch and pencil mark and bent page a story in itself. Another story lies in the making of the book itself--an elaborate and often highly demanding artistic process. The various histories of the book are part of the inspiration behind a new exhibit taking place at McHenry Library, at the University of California, Santa Cruz, through December 18.

The exhibit, "Explore Our Collections: Where do we come from? Who are we? Where are we going?," focuses on historic and contemporary bookmaking techniques and current preservation practices, highlighting early printing methods, papermaking, and book decoration. The exhibit also examines how material damage occurs through natural and human causes, and how repair and binding are done in the library.

Many special formats are displayed, such as accordion folded, pop- up, and carousel books, 16th-century manuscripts, a cuneiform tablet, and miniature books.

An accompanying exhibit, "Paper Chase: The Race to Save the Book," is featured at the Science Library.

A series of talks and demonstrations on bookmaking and preservation will be presented by library staffmembers and local printers and bookmakers at McHenry Library from November 5 through 18 (see schedule, attached). All events in this series are free and open to the public.

All events are free and open to the public. For more information, call (831) 459-4000 or visit the Web site: bob.ucsc.edu/library/exhibits/

Explore Our Collections: Talks and demonstrations on bookmaking and preservation

November 5-18, 1998

Thursday, November 5 "The Archaeology of the Book" A talk by Beth Remak, Collection Planning bibliographer 3:30 -5 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167 A reception follows

Friday November 6 "The Medieval Book: An Introduction to Medieval Manuscripts" Video screening, facilitated by Beth Remak, Collection Planning bibliographer, with assistance from David Kirk, media specialist noon-1 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167

Monday, November 9 Book Mending A demonstration by Sue Stoebner, head of the Preservation Unit 3:30 -5 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167

Tuesday, November 10 "Slow Fires" Video screening, facilitated by Karen Mokryzcki, library preservation officer, and David Kirk, media specialist noon-1:00 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167

Wednesday, November 11 Care and Handling of Books A demonstration conducted by Mathew Simpson, Preservation Unit assistant noon-1 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167

Thursday, November 12 The Book in Transition: Bookmaking from Letterpress to CD-ROMs Talks by Felicia Rice of Moving Parts Press, Gary Young of Greenhouse Review Press, and Jocelyn Bergen, managing editor of Octavo Corporation, Palo Alto 3:30 - 5:30 p.m. McHenry Library, 2nd floor Instruction Area Publications of the speakers will be on display. A reception will follow

Friday, November 13 "Mr. Bean in the Rare Book Room" Video screening of episode, facilitated by David Kirk, media specialist Noon-1 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167

Monday, November 16 Gifts and Endowments Talks by Alan Ritch, head of Collection Planning, Trent Eglin, assistant in Collection Planning, and Margaret Gordon, library development officer 3:30-5 p.m. McHenry Library, 2nd floor Instruction Area

Tuesday, November 17 Publishing and Using the Web for Book Searching Talks by Martha Ramirez, bibliographer in Collection Planning, and Varvara Paizis, head of Monographs Unit 3:30 - 4:30 p.m. McHenry Library, 2nd floor Instruction Area Reception to follow

Wednesday November 18 "Into the Future" Video screening, facilitated by Alan Ritch, head of Collection Planning, with assistance from media specialist David Kirk, noon-1 p.m. McHenry Library, Room 167

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/10-98/explore.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Library Lecture Series")