---
layout: post
title: Gender Often Does Matter In Communication Between Parents And Children
author: Jim Burns
---

**But UCSC Researchers Find That Differences In Communication Styles Are Not Uniform--and That The Differences May Be Related To The Conversation Topics Men And Women Select**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Psychologists have for some time observed  differences in the ways that fathers and mothers communicate  with sons and daughters. But a recently completed "meta-analysis"  of the body of research on the subject concludes that  the activity being discussed by parents and children and  the setting for their dialogue are two critical factors that  greatly influence the extent of differences.

"The important story here is that whether or not mothers  and fathers talk differently to their daughters and sons  depends on the situation," said Campbell Leaper, a  developmental psychologist at the University of  California, Santa Cruz. "Recognizing that context is so important  in these communication differences gets us away from thinking  that males and females are one way or another--that there is  an inherent difference in the way the genders communicate."

Leaper and his research partners--UCSC graduate  students Kristin Anderson and Paul Sanders--employed  meta-analysis in their study of the role that gender plays in  communication between parents and children. A  relatively new methodology, meta-analysis provides a  quantitative summary of findings across different studies. It  also identifies and assesses "moderating factors" that give  context and weight to research findings.

Most of the studies comparing how mothers and fathers  communicate with their children suggest that moms talk more  than dads, and that mothers are more engaged in regulating or  guiding activities. Fathers, on the other hand, appear to be  more concerned with getting down to business.

The studies also seemed to indicate that mothers talk  more with their daughters than with their sons during the  toddler years, and that moms use more controlling types of  communication with their daughters than with their sons.  (There aren't enough studies of how fathers speak with their  children to perform a meta-analysis, Leaper said.)

Leaper's team did conclude that these differences in  communication styles were more pronounced in studies in  which subjects were observed in real-life home settings  (compared to laboratory settings). "Just as in the real  estate business, our meta-analysis did indicate that location is  key," Leaper said. "Differences observed in parents'  communication styles, including the amount of talking,  directive language, supportive or negative language,  informing language and questions, were more noticeable in the  home than in the lab."

But the amount of structure in a given situation also  emerged as a significant moderating factor. In studies in which  parents were given a specific task to perform with their child,  there were fewer gender differences observed. For example, a  focused discussion aimed at solving a problem or  completing an assigned task may lead mothers and fathers to  talk in similar ways.

In situations in which it was possible to choose a  discussion topic or activity, however, mothers often opted for a  less task-oriented topic or activity--allowing for more  conversation.

One implication of Leaper's research is that gender- related variations in parents' interactions with their children  may largely depend on the type of situation that is selected. In  other words, mothers and fathers may differ in  communication styles primarily because of the conversation  topics or activities they choose.

Masculine-stereotyped topics or activities, such as sports  or construction-oriented toys, are apt to emphasize directive,  task-oriented communication, Leaper noted, while feminine- stereotyped activities, such as playing house, are more likely to  emphasize collaborative communication.

Leaper recommends that parents encourage their  daughters and sons to engage in a range of activities in order to  help them practice both types of communication. Directive  speech will help prepare children for the world of  work, whereas talking and supportive speech will help prepare  children for a world of close relationships.

The findings of Leaper's team were reported in the article  "Moderators of Gender Effects on Parents' Talk to Their  Children: A Meta-Analysis," which appeared in January 1998  issue of Developmental Psychology.

Associate Professor Leaper's areas of study and research  include gender and social-emotional development across the  life span, images of gender in the media, parent-child  communication, and language and conversation.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/05-98/050698-Gender_often_does_m.html "Permalink to 050698-Gender_often_does_m")
