---
layout: post
title: University Of Washington Dean Tapped For Key Administrative Post At UC Santa Cruz
author: Elizabeth Irwin
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--John B. Simpson, who has extensive experience  in academic administration, a distinguished background in  psychology, and a lifelong affiliation with the University of  California, has been selected to become the next Executive Vice  Chancellor at the university's Santa Cruz campus. Simpson will  assume the position as of July 1. Currently the Dean of Arts and  Sciences at the University of Washington in Seattle, he was  selected following a national search to replace R. Michael Tanner,  who has served in the position for more than nine years.

"We are delighted that John has accepted the invitation to join us,"  noted UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood. "He has demonstrated  exceptional leadership in his present post, and we are excited by  the addition of his energy and considerable talents to the UCSC  team."

Speaking from his office in Seattle, Simpson expressed great  enthusiasm for his upcoming appointment. "UC Santa Cruz is at the  threshold of a very exciting period, with new opportunities for  programmatic expansion. On a professional level, meeting the  challenges of that kind of institution building and especially  enjoying the privilege to work with such a dynamic and visionary  chancellor are powerful attractors. And on a personal level, my  family and I are University of California alums--it is truly exciting  to be back in the system...it's coming home."

Simpson leaves the University of Washington after a 23-year  career that began in 1975 with his appointment as Assistant  Professor of Psychology. He was appointed as Professor of  Psychology in 1982, and since that time he has held various  faculty and administrative positions, including service as Director  of the Joint Physiology-Psychology Program, head of the  Behavioral Neuroscience Area, and Associate Dean for Computing,  Facilities and Research, in the College of Arts and Sciences. He has  served as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences since 1995.  Encompassing 42 departments or schools, as well as two museums  and the performing center, the College of Arts and Sciences  embraces four divisions with 900 faculty and 22,000 students.

UCSC's gain is a keenly felt loss for Simpson's colleagues at the  University of Washington. Robin McCabe, Director of the School of  Music, said, "We will mourn his departure. We have to be happy  for him, and for Santa Cruz--but we will miss him." She added, "He  has been a wonderful advocate; for example, in extremely lean  times, he has been a very creative strategist in making bold  proposals to increase the profile of the arts at the University of  Washington."

This sentiment was echoed many times by faculty and  administrators representative of the full spectrum of disciplines  within the College of Arts and Sciences. Michael Halleran,  Divisional Dean of the Arts and Humanities and former Chair of  the Classics Department, noted, "John's great strength, simply put,  is that he is a good leader. He is intellectually curious, knows how  both to listen and to make decisions--and he's an awfully nice  guy."

Simpson plans to spend his first weeks in Santa Cruz getting to  know the campus and his new colleagues. When asked about his  expectations for his first activities, he responded, "I look forward  to helping define the academic niches in which UCSC has, or is  gaining, exceptional distinction. I see the potential for some very  interesting academic planning, but I can't make any projections  about specific directions the campus might take, until I've learned  more. I want to get to know UC Santa Cruz from top to bottom,  starting with the people."

Tanner will continue for a brief transition period, helping to orient  the new executive vice chancellor. "John Simpson's many  strengths are a good match for UCSC," Tanner noted. "He will bring  to the campus a solid academic and administrative background  with the broad perspective of someone accustomed to working in  a large institution. I predict his great success."

Simpson graduated from UC Santa Barbara with a B.A. in  psychology. He earned master's and doctoral degrees in  neurobiology and behavior at Northwestern University. Prior to  his arrival at the University of Washington, he worked for two  years at the University of Pennsylvania as a research associate of  the Institute of Neurological Sciences and a lecturer in the  department of psychology. He has served as Visiting Professor of  Physiology at the UC San Francisco School of Medicine and at the  Howard Florey Institute of Experimental Physiology and Medicine  in Melbourne, Australia. In addition to service on numerous  academic committees and in the Academic Senate at the  University of Washington, he is a member of the Board of Trustees  of the Pilchuck Glass School and the Intiman Theater Company  and is a director of the Henry Art Gallery.

Simpson will move to the area with his wife, Diane. They have two  adult children, Matthew (29) and Melissa (26). Simpson's previous  connection to the University of California is as an alumnus and  visiting professor. In fact, numerous members of the Simpson  family are graduates of the University of California, including his  grandmother (UCB), his grandfather (UCSF), his father (UCB), his  mother (UCLA), three sisters (two, UCB, and one, UCLA), his wife  (UCSB), and a daughter (UCSB).

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/06-98/062398-University_of_Washi.html "Permalink to 062398-University_of_Washi")
