---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"Sustainable Development for the Central Coast" is the focus of a forum** on March 13 at the Hyatt Regency Monterey. Dr. Tapan Monroe, chief economist for PG&E, will open with the keynote address, and then groups will form to discuss the following questions:   
* Where are we now in terms of sustainable development?   
* Where would we like to be in three years?   
* How will we achieve our goals?   
* How will progress be measured?   
The event is sponsored by the Monterey Bay Regional Futures Network, of which UCSC is a member, in conjunction with the Association of Monterey Bay Area Governments. For more information, call Steve Ellzey at (408) 784-1702.

**"A Symposium for Women in University Settings" is the title of an all-day conference** on March 12 at UC Berkeley. The keynote speaker is Dr. M. Joycelyn Elders, former U.S. Surgeon General. The conference is intended to give women, especially those at UCSF and UCB campuses, an opportunity to come together to discuss and critically look at where women are today in gaining access to positions of leadership in higher education. Speakers and workshop leaders include Dr. Shirley S. Chater, former U.S. Commissioner of the Social Security Administration, Dr. Judith Rosener, professor at UC Irvine's School of Business and Management, and Dean Herma Hill Kay of UC Berkeley Boalt School of Law. To register, call Jean Chen at (415) 476-5836. 

**The Art Department is looking for display space** for student artwork. If you have any space available, large or small, call Hollie Hill in the Art Department at (408) 459-2272.

**"'There Will Be No More There': Globalization, Privatization, and the Family Form in the U.S. Corporate Imaginary"** is the title of a talk by Roger Rouse, assistant professor of anthropology at UC Davis, on Wednesday, February 18, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. Rouse is known for his work on Mexican migration and on transnational capitalism. The talk is part of the ongoing Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. 

**"Making Waves: Third Parties and International Mediation in the Aral Sea Basin"** will be the topic of a talk by Erika Weinthal, a graduate student with the Center for International Security and Arms Control at Stanford University, on Tuesday, February 17. The presentation is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts." The colloquia take place on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. 

**The UC Mexus grants program is soliciting proposals** from researchers and research teams. The program offers large grants of up to $10,000, small grants of up to $1,000, and grants for dissertation research of up to $5,000; due dates for proposals vary. UC Mexus is looking for research in the areas of Mexico-related studies, Chicana/Chicano studies, United States-Mexican relations, and Chicano and Mexican topics in the arts and humanities. For application forms and more information, contact Kathryn Vincent, assistant director of UC Mexus, 3324 Olmsted Hall, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521; phone: (909) 787-3519; fax (909) 787-3856.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/02-16/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 02-16-98")
