---
layout: post
title: UCSC Professor Emeritus Sands Wins Physics Prize
author: Tim Stephens
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA­The American Physical Society (APS) has awarded the  1998 Robert R. Wilson Prize to Matthew Sands, professor emeritus of  physics. The Wilson Prize recognizes outstanding achievement in the physics  of particle accelerators.

Sands was an active faculty member at UC Santa Cruz from 1969 to  1985 and continued his research activities until 1994. He lives in Santa  Cruz and in recent years has worked with local K¯12 schools to develop  computer systems and physics lab activities for students.

Sands's research focused on phenomena critical to the design and  operation of particle accelerators, the large and complex experimental  facilities used to study the behavior of elementary particles. Experiments  conducted in particle accelerators yield clues about the fundamental nature  of matter.

The prize will be presented to Sands at the national meeting of the  APS on April 20 in Columbus, Ohio, where he will give a talk on the subject  of instabilities in electron storage rings. The APS award citation reads: "For  his many contributions to accelerator physics and the development of  electron-positron and proton colliders and for his importance as teacher and  role model for many generations of scientists."

Sands was the first to show­theoretically and experimentally­the  importance of quantum effects in electron accelerators. He is also known  for his work on beam instabilities, wake fields, beam-cavity interactions,  and other phenomena. Teaching is as important a part of Sands's career as research. From  1960 to 1966, he served on the Commission on College Physics, which  carried out a national program to modernize physics instruction in the  colleges and universities of the United States. In 1972 he received a  Distinguished Service Award from the American Association of Physics  Teachers.

Sands received his B.A. in physics and mathematics from Clark  University in 1940 and his M.A. in physics from Rice University. After  earning a Ph.D. in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in  1948, Sands joined the MIT faculty. In 1950 he moved to the California  Institute of Technology and in 1963 became deputy director for the  construction and early operation of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center  (SLAC). In his first three years at UCSC (1969¯72), Sands served as vice  chancellor for science under Chancellor Dean McHenry.

After retiring from UCSC, Sands worked as a consultant for SLAC and  also as a computer consultant for Bay View Elementary School in Santa Cruz.  More recently he has worked with Santa Cruz High School physics teacher  Patrick Curry to develop experiments for the physics lab.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/97-98/04-98/041398-UCSC_professor_emer.html "Permalink to 041398-UCSC_professor_emer")
