---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

The approval process for the **Ocean Sciences Ph.D.** has been successfully concluded, and the program will begin admitting students in fall 1998. For a description of the new doctoral program contact the Ocean Sciences Department at (408) 459-4026.

**"Earthquakes and Volcanoes"** will be the topic of a presentation and discussion led by Susan Schwartz, assistant professor of earth sciences, when the UCSC Women's Club gathers for its monthly meeting on February 4. The event is open to the public and will take place from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at University House. For more information, call University Advancement at (408) 459-2501.

**Counseling and Psychological Services offers a supportive and confidential group for women survivors of sexual abuse.** For more information, call Ann Mousour at (408) 459-2109 or Jessica Drew at (408) 459-2975.

**"The Rhine River as a Human Artifice"** is the title of a talk by Mark Cioc, professor of history, on Monday, February 2. The presentation is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts." The colloquia take place on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Dean of engineering Patrick Mantey will give a talk** on "Monitoring of the Monterey Bay Regional Environment via Internet: REINAS." on Tuesday, February 3, from 8 to 9 p.m. in Classroom Unit 1. The talk is sponsored by Sigma Xi, the scientific research society.

**CANCELED Poet Kathleen Fraser,** professor emerita of writing at San Francisco State University, will be speaking on campus on Thursday, February 5, at 7:30 p.m. in Kresge 159. Fraser was editor of _HOW(ever),_ a journal of innovative writing that provides a forum for women poets and scholars. She has won various awards, including a National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship and a Guggenheim Fellowship. Her appearance is sponsored by the Living Writers Cluster, which brings innovative prose and poetry writers to the campus.

**Jennifer Gonzalez, assistant professor of art history,** will give a presentation titled "The Appended Subject: On-line Bodies as a Visual Assemblage" on February 4 at noon in the Cowell College Conference Room. The talk is part of the ongoing Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**Kuan-hsing Chen, professor in the Department of Foreign Languages and coordinator of the Center for Asia-Pacific/Cultural Studies at National Tsing-Hua University in Taiwan,** will give a presentation on "The Decolonization Question: Thinking Beyond Colonial Identifications and Identity Politics" on Thursday, February 5, at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is sponsored by the Cluster on Asian Pacific American Cultural Studies; for more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**The UC Berkeley Chamber Chorus will perform at UCSC** on Sunday, February 22, at 8 p.m. in the Music Center Recital Hall. The Chamber Chorus, conducted by Marika Kuzma, is known especially for its work with the Philharmonia Baroque Orchestra and its interpretation of early and contemporary music. The program for the concert includes the Choral Concerto No. 6 by Bortniansky; Madrigals by Monteverdi from Books 3 and 4; and Sephardisms II (world premiere) by Jorge Liderman. The performance is cosponsored by the Music Department and the Santa Cruz Chorale. For tickets or more information, call the Santa Cruz Chorale at (408) 427-8023 or address mail to P.O. Box 1831, Capitola, CA 95010.

**February is the month to support the 1998 Women at Work Retreat** by purchasing See's chocolates at the office. To find out the location of the See's candy nearest you or to help with sales, contact Kim Hughes at (408) 459-2713.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/02-02/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 02/02/98")
