---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Elizabeth Irwin, director of Public Information and Publications, **will speak on the topic "UC Santa Cruz: Connecting with Our Community" at a meeting of the UCSC Women's Club on Wednesday, January 7, from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at University House. The meeting is open to the public. For more information, call (408) 459-2501.

**The Conference and Summer Housing Office is looking for students** to work its 1998 summer confererence season. Applications are available at Student Employment or the Housing Office (located above College Eight). Deadline to apply is February 6. An informational Job Fair will be held on Thursday, January 22, from 6:00 to 7:30 p.m. at the Stevenson Fireside Lounge. For more information, phone (408) 459-2611.

**The Chancellor's Undergraduate Internship Program (CUIP) welcomes proposals** from administrative units, departments, colleges, and faculty for internship projects for 1998­99. CUIP projects must have an identifiable product or result, involve 150 hours of high quality work per quarter, and provide a primary role for the intern in project organization and implementation. Host units and the Chancellor's Office share equally the cost of each intern's fees. The deadline to apply is February 6. For guidelines and models of successful programs, contact the CUIP coordinator, Melissa McClaren.

**UCSC's 11th annual Multicultural Connection Conference** will be held on Saturday, February 7, at College Eight. The conference provides an opportunity to connect with alumni of color; discuss race relations in the workplace, community, and academia; and explore careers, internships, and graduate schools. For more information, contact Veronica Acevedo Avila at (408) 459-4839 or Shawn Ogimachi at (408) 459-2057.

**Reminder: The Recreation Office offers quality low-cost fitness and yoga classes** designed specifically for faculty and staff. Use your lunch hour to relax and rejuvenate your mind and body. YOGA: Mondays and Fridays, noon-1 p.m.; STRETCH & STRENGTHEN: Tuesdays and Thursdays, noon-1 p.m. Classes are $4 each or buy a card of ten for $28. All classes are held in the East Field House Activity Room. For more information, call the Recreation Office at (408) 459-2668.

**"Of Burning and Bread: Can Ecology Learn from Yolngu Aboriginal Communities?"** is the title of a presentation by Helen Watson Veran, senior lecturer in the Department of History and Philosophy of Science at Melbourne University (Australia) on Thursday, January 8, at 4:30 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**"The Art of Not Being Governed: Michel Foucault on Critique and Transgression"** is the topic of a talk by David Halperin, who is on the faculty of the Department of Sociology, Culture, and Communication at the University of New South Wales in Sydney (Australia) on Friday, January 9, at 4 p.m. in Room 159 Kresge. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/01-05/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 01-05-98")
