---
layout: post
title: Governor's Proposed Budget Provides UC With Extra $108 Million
author: Rick Malaspina, UC Office of the President
---

Governor Wilson has proposed that the state provide an additional $108 million to UC as part of the governor's 1998-99 state budget proposal.

Gov. Wilson proposed the additional funding for UC as part of his May revision of last January's state budget proposal. In the January proposal, UC was to receive $175 million in state general funds. Additional funding became available to the state because revenues were higher than projections used to develop last January's budget proposal.

Here is a breakdown of the additional UC funding proposed so far by the governor and its uses:
* $23 million to fund the expected enrollment of 3,200 students who will be accommodated but whose enrollment was not funded in the January proposal.
* $25 million in onetime funding for instructional equipment such as laboratory equipment, furniture for classrooms and laboratories, and computers.
* $25 million in onetime funding for instructional technology such as computers for classrooms and libraries and videoconferencing equipment for classrooms.
* $25 million in onetime funding to meet deferred maintenance needs, including the repair and replacement of roofs, elevators, and heating and ventilation systems.
* $10 million in onetime funding for library materials, supplies, and other expenses.  

**Statement by Richard C. Atkinson, president, University of California: **

"Gov. Wilson's strong demonstration of support for the University of California is extremely gratifying. His proposal for additional funding will be helpful in meeting a number of critical needs, most notably the enrollment of an additional 3,200 students in the 1998-99 academic year than would have been funded by the governor's proposal of last January. This, combined with the governor's onetime funding of our needs related to instructional equipment, instructional technology, deferred maintenance and libraries, represents a significant benefit for our students, faculty, and staff. I know I speak for the entire university community and the Board of Regents in expressing our appreciation and gratitude to the governor."

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/05-18/funding.htm "Permalink to Governor adds $108 million to UC budget proposal: 5-18-98")
