---
layout: post
title: UCSC Sponsors Business Forum On 'Managing Quality Growth'
author: Jim Burns
---

The Department of Economics at UCSC will host a June 3 forum that has been designed for people whose businesses are experiencing growing pains. "A CEO Forum: Challenges and Opportunities in Managing Quality Growth" will take place next Wednesday in downtown Santa Cruz.

The free event, which is sponsored by the Advisory Board of UCSC's Economics Department, is scheduled from 3 to 6 p.m. in the McPherson Center Auditorium, located at 705 Front Street.

The forum will describe how successful CEOs work to maintain quality while operating in a growth environment and rapidly changing marketplace. Three CEOs will participate in a panel discussion on related topics and will share their personal experiences managing growing companies. The three are William Hanneman of Giro Sport Design, Inc., Cliff Warren of Raytek Corporation, and Bruce Woolpert of Graniterock Company.

Making short presentations to open the forum will be Martin Chemers, dean of social sciences at UCSC and an expert on the psychology of leadership, who will discuss the general characteristics of successful leadership, and Phil Ostrom, ISO 9000 lead assessor and National Quality Assurance Examiner for the Malcolm  Baldridge Award, who will discuss the shared characteristics of firms that receive national marks of distinction such as the Malcolm Baldridge Award. Michael Hutchison, a professor of economics at UCSC, will introduce the speakers.

The forum is cosponsored by the Santa Cruz Area Chamber of Commerce and the Small Business Development Center. People planning to attend must reserve space in advance by calling Jennifer Hightower in UCSC's Economics Department, at (408) 459-2028.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/06-01/ceo.forum.htm "Permalink to CEO Forum: 06-01-98")
