---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**"A Mediterranean Victorian Medley" is the theme of this year's Women's Club Garden Tour, **which will take place on Sunday, May 31, from noon to 4 p.m. Four unique Santa Cruz gardens will be showcased, and a reception at the Arboretum will follow from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. Proceeds benefit the Rita Pister Endowed Scholarship Fund for UCSC Re-Entry Students. Tickets are $10 and are available at Norrie's Gift Shop at the Arboretum, Integrand Design in Santa Cruz, and Jones and Bones in Capitola. For more information, call (408) 426-8152.

**Paul Rabwin, producer and post-production sound editor of _The X-Files,_** will give a talk on Monday, June 1, from 11 a.m. to noon in Porter 148. Rabwin is a UCSC alumnus (English literature, Cowell '70). The talk is sponsored by UCSC's new Film and Video Department. For more information, call (408) 459-3277.

**Literature's Maria-Paz Balibrea-Enriquez will give a talk** on "Historical Memory in Post-Franco Spain" on Wednesday, May 27 in the Cowell College Conference Room at noon. The presentation is part of the Center for Cultural Studies spring colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. 

**"Huckleberry Finn: The Uses of a Hypercanonic Object" will be the topic** of a presentation by Jonathan Arac of the English Department at the University of Pittsburgh and discussants from UCSC's Literature Department, Susan Gillman, Kirsten Gruesz, Juan Poblete, and Karen Yamashita, on Wednesday, May 27 at 4 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk, Arac says, "is concerned with the relations over the last fifty years in the U.S.A. among academic culture, public-school pedagogy, and national public discourse. It builds on my recent book _Huckleberry Finn as Idol and Target_ (1997) but does not presume that people who hear the talk will already have read the book." 

**Chrystos, native poet and activist, will give a poetry reading** on Friday, May 29, at 8 p.m. in the Oakes Mural Room. Chrystos is a Menominee poet and the recipient of an NEA fellowship and a number of poetry awards. A reception at Harvey Milk College will follow. For more information, call Andy Smith at (408) 460-1856.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/05-25/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 05-25-98")
