---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Staff are invited to share their expertise with the local community by joining the Speakers Bureau.** The program has been very well received by area organizations, agencies, and schools, and requests for speakers continue to increase. This year the Speakers Bureau filled more than 50 requests for presentations. A brochure describing the program, which is mailed extensively to organizations in the Santa Cruz area, is being updated for the coming year. In order to be included in the 1998-99 brochure, send the following information to Alice Williams:
* name
* e-mail address
* department
* office phone
* home phone
* the field or area of expertise you plan to speak about
* information about your availability, including best quarters (fall, winter, spring, all) and best times (day, evening, weekends)
* distance you are willing to travel (10-mile radius, 25-mile radius).

In order to participate in this program, you must have the approval of your supervisor. For more information, e-mail or phone Alice Williams at (408) 459-5190.

**Summer hours for campus restaurants:**
* The Whole Earth Restaurant is open for the summer Monday-Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., offering campus delivery service for phone-in orders. To place an order, call (408) 426-8255; for a 12:30 p.m. delivery, place your order by 11:30 a.m. and for a 1:30 p.m. delivery, the order must be placed by noon.
* The Howling Cow Cafe at Kresge College will reopen on Monday, July 6, and be open from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday-Friday. The Howling Cow can be reached at (408) 429-6606.
* Stevenson Coffee House is open Monday-Friday from 7:45 a.m. to 2 p.m. through August 12. Call (408) 459-2433 for more information

**Drop-in yoga stretch classes are taking place over the summer** on Tuesdays and Thursdays from noon to 1 p.m. in the Martial Arts Room at the East Field House. Instructor Don Bard has been practicing yoga for over 16 years. The cost for staff and faculty is $4/class; a 10-card class is $28. Students pay $2.50/class or $23 for a 10-class card. Members of the community may attend for $5/class or with a 10-class card at $39. Classes will continue through September 3. For more information, call (408) 459-2531.

**The Graduate Student Association held elections** of officers on June 4. The GSA Executive Council for 1998-99 is:
* President: Nathan Sanders
* Internal Vice President: Jennifer Jipson
* External Vice President: Kami Chisholm
* Secretary: Aradhna Tripati
* Treasurer: Dylan Herrick

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/06-29/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 06-29-98")
