---
layout: post
title: Take Note
author: UCSC Currents
---

**Swim, bike, and run at the 8th Annual Skippy Triathlon,** sponsored by UCSC intramural sports, on Saturday, March 7, at 8 a.m. at the East Field House pool. The event includes a 1,000-yard swim in the pool, a 6-mile mountain bike ride, and a 5.2-mile cross-country run. The cost is $15/person. For more information, call Skippy at (408) 459-4220.

**Mieczeslaw Rakowski, former prime minister of Poland,** will speak on "The First Velvet Revolution: State and Society in Poland's Postcommunist Transition" on Thursday, February 26, at 7 p.m. in Room 71, Social Sciences 2. For more information, call the Politics Department at (408) 459-2451.

**"The Literary Destruction of L.A."** will be the topic of a talk by urban social critic Mike Davis on Monday, February 23, at 4 p.m. in the Kresge Town Hall. Davis, who teaches at the Cesar Chavez Center for Chicana and Chicano Studies at UCLA and at the Southern California Institute of Architecture, is the author of _City of Quartz: Excavating the Future in Los Angeles,_ which analyzes labor, religious, gang, penal, architectural, literary, and cultural industry forces in the city. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

**"Damming Troubled Waters--Conflict on the Danube"** is the title of a talk by Ronnie Lipschutz, associate professor of politics, on Monday, February 23. The presentation is part of the Stevenson Program on Global Security winter colloquia, titled "Water--Politics, Economics, Conflicts." The colloquia take place on Mondays from 3:30 to 4:40 p.m. in Room 134, Cowell College. For more information, call (408) 459-2833.

**Literature's Karen Tei Yamashita will give a talk** on "_Dekasegi:_ Japanese in Brazil, Brazilians in Japan" on Wednesday, February 25, at noon in the Oakes Mural Room. The talk is part of the ongoing Center for Cultural Studies winter colloquium series. Sessions are informal, normally consisting of a 30-40 minute presentation followed by discussion. Participants are encouraged to bring their own lunches; the center provides coffee and tea. For more information, call (408) 459-4899.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/oncampus/currents/97-98/02-23/takenote.htm "Permalink to Take Note: 02-23-98")
