---
layout: post
title: Educational Partnership Center
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UCSC's Educational Partnership Center Hosts Open House April 30

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The Educational Partnership Center at the University of California, Santa Cruz, is hosting a public open house on Friday, April 30, from 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. The center is located at 3004 Mission Street Extension, Suite 220, in the DASCOM Research Park in Santa Cruz.

The event will highlight the activities of the center, which oversees all university collaborations with schools, community colleges, and other members of the educational community.

"We're inviting the campus and the community to come see what we're doing at the center," said EPC Director Carrol Moran. "The center is the first point of contact for anyone interested in collaborating with the university on a K-14 project, so we're looking forward to meeting K-12 teachers, parents, faculty members, and anyone else who's interested in the outreach work we're doing with schools."

UCSC has an impressive track record of reaching out to local schools for more than 30 years, and the center, which opened in January, builds on that history. Its off-campus location across the street from the district offices of the Santa Cruz City Schools reflects the university's desire to tighten the links between the university and schools in the Monterey Bay and Santa Clara County areas.

Speakers at the open house will include Assemblyman Fred Keeley; Francisco Hernandez, vice chancellor for Student Affairs at UCSC; and Joyce Justus, chair of the UCSC Education Department.

Visitors will have a chance to talk with representatives of several of the projects housed under the Educational Partnership Center, including the Monterey Bay Educational Consortium, the Early Academic Outreach Program, the Community College Transfer Partnerships Program, and the Mathematics, Engineering, and Science Achievement (MESA) Program.

"The open house will give visitors a brief glimpse of the kinds of programs we're running out of the center and of the value of integrating all of our efforts as we work to create college-bound communities," said Moran.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/04-99/epc.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Educational Partnership Center")