---
layout: post
title: New Farm cookbook out in time for the holidays
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## New UCSC Farm Cookbook Features Recipies For Seasonal Produce From The Great Chefs Of Santa Cruz County

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Just in time for holiday feasting and gift giving, the Friends of the UC Santa Cruz Farm & Garden are pleased to announce publication of their second cookbook, Seasonal Recipes from the Great Chefs of Santa Cruz County.

Featuring 81 recipes from chefs cooking for the area's premiere restaurants and catering companies, the cookbook highlights the use of seasonally fresh produce in everything from appetizers to main dishes and desserts. As Deborah Madison, founding chef of Greens Restaurant in San Francisco and author of The Savory Way, writes in the introduction to the new cookbook, "starting with good-tasting, startlingly fresh vegetables means that more than half the battle with cooking is won. In fact, cooking ceases to be a battle and becomes the pleasure it should be."

The recipes are presented in four separate seasonal sections, each of which is introduced with a description by UCSC garden manager Orin Martin of the garden during fall, winter, spring, and summer. The cookbook, which is spiral bound and lies flat for easy use, also features original drawings by local artist Graydon Livingston.

The cookbook will be available in local bookstores, Integrand Design, and other outlets in early December. The suggested retail price is $19.95. Proceeds from sales support the work of the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden, including community education in organic farming and gardening.

Two events are being held to celebrate the arrival of the new cookbook, which follows publication three years ago of Recipes from the Great Chefs of Santa Cruz County.

Benefit Dinner at Blacks Beach Cafe Monday, December 6 7 p.m. 15th Avenue and East Cliff Drive, Santa Cruz

Dine on a sumptuous meal prepared by contributing chefs Robert Morris of Blacks Beach Cafe, Peter Dressen of Theo's, and Tom McNary of Carried Away Fine Foods to Go, and enjoy wines donated by Bonny Doon Vineyard's Randall Grahm. Tickets are $60 per person. Space is limited and reservations are required. For more information, please call (831) 459-3240.

Cooking Demonstration with Master Chefs at Integrand Design Monday, December 13 5-7 p.m. 1515 Pacific Avenue, Santa Cruz. Watch the professionals do their stuff during this free cooking demonstration in downtown Santa Cruz by three contributing chefs.

The cookbook may also be ordered by mail by sending a check made payable to UC Regents to Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden, University of California, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064, Attn: Cookbook. For mail orders, please include $2.50 per book for tax and shipping.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/11-99/cookbook.htm "Permalink to UCSC Press Release:New Farm cookbook out in time for the holidays")