---
layout: post
title: Long Marine Lab Auction
author: Tim Stephens
---

## Long Marine Lab Holds 14th Annual Whale Of An Auction March 26

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A whale of a good time is guaranteed for all at Long Marine Lab's 14th annual Whale of an Auction. Enjoy a catered buffet and sample fine wines, champagne, and caviar while bidding on a fantastic array of offerings available nowhere else.

The fun begins at 6 p.m. on the UCSC campus in Porter College Dining Hall on Friday, March 26. All proceeds support the public education programs at Long Marine Lab.

A clambake on the beach for 20 people catered by the Crow's Nest, a bumper-car party for 50 people at the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk, and dinner dates with famous university professors and politicians are among the offerings available to the highest bidder.

Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood is offering a gourmet dinner cooked by herself and friends and served at University House. Gary Griggs, director of the Institute of Marine Sciences, and other renowned scientists are offering guided field trips by air, land, or sea. Also up for bid will be gourmet and vintage wines, art glass, jewelry, and a variety of services offered by professionals and contractors throughout the Monterey Bay area.

The annual event, sponsored by the Friends of Long Marine Lab, raises tens of thousands of dollars for the lab's efforts to inform schoolchildren and the general public about the Monterey Bay marine environment and marine research at UCSC.

Tickets are $35 in advance ($30 for members) and $40 at the door. To order tickets call (831) 459-2883.

Donations to the auction or to the lab's education programs are welcome. For more information call (831) 459-3694.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/03-99/auction99.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Long Marine Lab Auction")