---
layout: post
title: Huffman memorial set for October 23, 1999
author: Jim Burns
---

## UCSC Memorial Planned For Computer Scientist David Huffman

### Remembrance Will Take Place On Saturday, October 23, At 3 P.m.

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A memorial service for David A. Huffman, the founding faculty member of UC Santa Cruz's Computer Science Department and a pioneer in the field, will take place on campus on Saturday, October 23. Huffman died at a local hospital on October 7, after a 10-month battle with cancer. He was 74.

The memorial, open to the public, will begin at 3 p.m. in Room 152 of the Jack Baskin Engineering Building (formerly named the Applied Sciences Building). A reception will follow in the building's lobby.

Huffman is probably best known for the development of the Huffman Coding Procedure, the result of a term paper he wrote while a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). "Huffman Codes" are used in nearly every application that involves the compression and transmission of digital data, such as fax machines, modems, computer networks, and high-definition television.

In 1967, Huffman came to UC Santa Cruz as the founding faculty member of the Computer Science Department. He played a major role in the development of the department's academic programs and the hiring of its faculty, and served as chair from 1970 to 1973. He retired in 1994, but remained active until recently as an emeritus professor, teaching information theory and signal analysis courses.

David Huffman is survived by his wife, Marilyn Huffman, of Santa Cruz; his former wife, Jane Ayres Huffman; their three children, Elise, Linda, and Stephen Huffman, all of Santa Cruz; a son-in-law, Jeff Grubb, of Santa Cruz; a stepdaughter, Marti Homer Kehlet, of Sacramento, her husband, Daret, and their daughter, Karsen; a stepson, Darin Homer of Prunedale, his wife, Jane, and their son, Ryan; and a brother, Donald Huffman, of Westerville, Ohio, his wife, Jean, and their family.

At the family's request, contributions in David Huffman's name may be made to the Hospice Caring Project of Santa Cruz County or the American Cancer Society, Santa Cruz Chapter.

In addition, a memorial fund has been established at UC Santa Cruz in David Huffman's name. Donations should be made payable to the UCSC Foundation and sent to the Development Office, Jack Baskin School of Engineering, UC Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA 95064.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/10-99/huffmem.htm "Permalink to UCSC Press Release:Huffman memorial set for October 23, 1999")