---
layout: post
title: UCSC New Teacher Center
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UC Santa Cruz Launches New Teacher Center

### New Center Is "Good News For California Public Education," Says State Education Secretary Gary Hart

SANTA CRUZ, CA--On January 27, the University of California, Santa Cruz, is opening the New Teacher Center to help schools develop high- quality, well-trained teachers. The public and Governor Gray Davis are demanding skilled and effective teachers for all students at the same time that California is experiencing a critical teacher shortage. The New Teacher Center is dedicated to meeting these educational challenges.

The first of its kind, the New Teacher Center, located in the McPherson Center at 725 Front Street in Santa Cruz, is a long-needed statewide and national resource on the best practices in teacher induction. Opening ceremonies include a policy forum, reception, and public symposium.

Citing current projections that California's credentialed teaching pool will have to double in size within the next five years to meet class size reduction goals, Center Director Ellen Moir said: "California added nearly 27,000 teachers to its rolls during 1998 alone--many with little or no professional training or practical experience. By providing training, in- depth technical assistance, research, and comprehensive strategies to build professional competence, the New Teacher Center aims to create excellence in our teaching force."

A grand opening reception, hosted by UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood, will take place on Wednesday, January 27, from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Other events include a forum for policy makers and a full-day symposium on new teacher induction. (See full schedule of events below.)

Governor Davis's new Education Secretary Gary Hart said: "Gov. Davis believes more attention and resources need to be devoted to high- quality teacher education programs. UCSC has been at the forefront of thoughtful and effective innovation in teacher education, and the creation of the New Teacher Center is good news for California public education."

The New Teacher Center is the brainchild of the highly successful Santa Cruz New Teacher Project (SCNTP), an 11-year partnership among UCSC, the Santa Cruz County Office of Education, and 15 school districts in the Monterey Bay Area and Silicon Valley. One of California's Beginning Teacher Support and Assessment Programs, the SCNTP currently provides mentoring and professional development training to nearly 350 first- and second-year teachers. The New Teacher Center is funded by generous support from the Walter S. Johnson, S. H. Cowell, Noyce, and William and Flora Hewlett Foundations and Joint Venture: Silicon Valley.

\----------------------------------

GRAND OPENING EVENTS

January 27-28, 1999 McPherson Center 725 Front Street Santa Cruz, CA

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27 10 a.m.-3 p.m. Induction Forum Shaping Policy and Practice: A Forum on New Teacher Induction

An invited group of 25 leading educators and policy makers from local, state, and national constituencies are gathering for a structured and facilitated conversation about the current status and the future of new teacher induction. A white paper summarizing the proceedings will be produced.

5 p.m.-7 p.m. Opening Reception A gala opening reception

UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood and other dignitaries will welcome guests to the center. Guests will have an opportunity to socialize as well as to tour the Museum of Art and History at the McPherson Center.

THURSDAY, JANUARY 28 8:30 a.m.-4 p.m. Symposium on New Teacher Induction New Teachers at the Center: Transforming the Profession through Teacher Induction

The purpose of the symposium is twofold: to inform educators about the latest research on new teacher support and assessment and to inform policy makers about local and state policies that support these findings. Key issues and questions that are discussed will be synthesized in a document produced after the event. Attendance is limited to 150.

8:30-9:45 Welcome with keynote speakers Ann Lieberman and Ellen Moir 9:45-10:00 Break 10:00-11:00 Informational sessions (5 sessions) 11:00-11:15 Break 11:15-12:15 Informational sessions (5 sessions) 12:15-1:00 Lunch 1:00-3:00 Panel/Focus groups 3:15-4:00 Closing remarks and reception

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/01-99/teachers.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: UCSC New Teacher Center")