---
layout: post
title: Classes unite with Alumni Assn. for $230,000 gift
author: Francine Tyler
---

## Four UCSC Alumni Classes Unite For $230,000 Gift

SANTA CRUZ, CA-The generosity of four classes of UC Santa Cruz graduates has generated nearly a quarter of a million dollars for the UCSC Alumni Association Scholarship Fund and other campus programs.

Representatives of the classes of '69 (UCSC's pioneer class), '74, '79, and '94 presented checks totaling $180,000 to UCSC Executive Vice Chancellor John Simpson at an all-alumni reunion luncheon on April 17. The UCSC Alumni Association added $50,000 to the gifts in the form of a challenge grant, producing a total of $230,000. The luncheon took place in the dining hall of Porter College during UCSC's annual Banana Slug Spring Fair celebration.

"I want to thank all alumni, particularly the Pioneers and the classes of 1974, 1979, and 1994, for their remarkable support of this campus and its students," said Simpson, who accepted the class gifts on behalf of UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood. "It is so wonderful that while celebrating the time you shared as students at UCSC, you have chosen to support today's students, who follow in your footsteps."

The alumni classes made donations as follows: The class of '69 raised $64,094, including an additional $5,000 gift made at the luncheon itself; the class of '74 raised $71,793; the class of '79 raised $36,350; and the class of 1994 raised $9,640. The campaigns will continue until June 30. Some $140,000 of the $230,000 gift will go to the UCSC Alumni Association Scholarship Fund, which provides support to students who have financial need, said Steve Klein, president of the Alumni Association. Approximately $90,000 will benefit other areas of campus such as college programs and academic divisions.

The gift brings the scholarship fund within reach of $700,000 and almost three-quarters of the way to the Alumni Association's goal of establishing a permanent endowment of $1 million. The fund awarded ten $2,500 scholarships this academic year. This year's gift effort was organized by the Development Committee of the Alumni Association Council, class volunteers, and the Office of Annual and Special Gifts.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/04-99/alumgift.htm "Permalink to Classes unite with Alumni Assn. for $230,000 gift")