---
layout: post
title: Memorial Service For Biologist Patrick Elvander To Be February 27, 1999
author: Tim Stephens
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--A memorial service for Patrick Elvander, a lecturer in the Biology Department at the University of California, Santa Cruz, will be held on Saturday, February 27, at 2 p.m. in UCSC's Crown College Dining Hall. All those who knew Elvander are invited to share their memories and experiences. Refreshments will be served after the service.

The popular biology instructor, whose specialty was plant systematics, died unexpectedly in October. Speakers at the memorial service will include members of the campus community, professional colleagues, former students, members of friends' groups, family members, and representatives of the San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus. For more information about the service, contact Linda Locatelli at (831) 459-3485 [locatelli@biology.ucsc.edu] or Mike Dalbey at (831) 459-3674 [dalbey@biology.ucsc.edu].

Elvander taught general biology, biology of the fungi, systematic botany, and field botany, among other courses. One of his favorite sites for field study was the UCSC Arboretum, where he introduced many students and community members to the marvels of botany.

The university has established a memorial fund in Elvander's name to support instruction in the plant sciences, particularly at the undergraduate level, and the creation of the Patrick Elvander Taxonomy Trail at the Arboretum. Contributions to the fund may be made in care of the UCSC Foundation, Elvander Memorial Fund, Carriage House, 1156 High Street, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064. For more information, call Amie Muccilli, UCSC Donor Services Office, at (831) 459-2501.

Gifts in Elvander's name may also be made to the San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus. Donations should be sent to the attention of Bill Lewandowski, Golden Gate Performing Arts, San Francisco Gay Men's Chorus, 400 Castro St., San Francisco, CA 94114.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/02-99/elvander.htm "Permalink to UC Santa Cruz: Elvander Memorial February 27")
