---
layout: post
title: Good bugs for the garden
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## Attracting Good Bugs To The Garden Topic Of UCSC Expert

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Not all bugs are bad for your garden. Just ask bug expert Sean Swezey of UC Santa Cruz, who will share his expertise during a free public lecture and slide show on Saturday, February 27, from 7 to 9 p.m. His talk, "'Good Bugs' for the Garden," will take place at the Patagonia store, 415 River Street, in Santa Cruz.

"Good bugs" are the beneficial insects that feed on pests such as aphids, mites, white flies, and scale. Gardeners and farmers plant certain flowers to attract beneficial insects, including lacewings, big-eyed bugs, and ladybird beetles, better known as ladybugs, said Swezey, who will discuss ways to attract and retain "good bugs" in the garden or farm, as well as how to order them from insectaries.

Five or six families of flowers are particularly effective, and Swezey will tailor his talk to the varieties that are best suited to Central Coast gardens.

Swezey will also discuss his work growing organic cotton in the Central Valley, a project he has undertaken over the past several years in partnership with cotton farmers. He will describe how organic cotton is grown, the environmental benefits of the endeavor, and the scope of retail efforts to market clothing made from organic cotton .

Swezey's talk is sponsored by the Friends of the UCSC Farm & Garden. For more information, call (831) 459-3248.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/02-99/bugs.htm "Permalink to Good bugs for the garden")