---
layout: post
title: Native American artist Winona LaDuke visits
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UCSC Hosts Leading Native American Artist Winona Laduke**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Winona LaDuke, one of the nation's leading Native American and environmental activists, is coming to the University of California, Santa Cruz, on Tuesday, October 26, at 8 p.m. LaDuke will speak and read from her new book, All Our Relations: Native Struggles for Land and Life. Her talk will take place in the Kresge Town Hall. The event is free and open to the public.

LaDuke is an enrolled member of the Mississippi band of Anishinaabeg and became involved in Native American environmental issues while studying at Harvard University. LaDuke movingly describes native people's resistance to environmental and cultural degradation and presents a vision of political, spiritual, and ecological transformation.

LaDuke is executive director of Honor the Earth, which supports native communities on the front lines of environmental protection in North America. She is founding director of the White Earth Land Recovery Project and is cochair of the Indigenous Women's Network and a board member of Greenpeace, USA. In 1994, she was named by Time magazine as one of America's 50 most promising leaders under 40 years of age. In the 1996 presidential campaign, she served as Ralph Nader's running mate for the Green Party, and in 1997, with the Indigo Girls, she was named a Ms. Woman of the Year. In 1988, she received the Reebok Human Rights Award.

LaDuke's visit is being cosponsored by the UCSC Women's Center, women's studies, the Native American Studies Research Cluster, American studies, cultural studies, environmental studies, and literature.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/10-99/laduke.htm "Permalink to Native American artist Winona LaDuke visits")