---
layout: post
title: Send Your Kids To Summer Day Camp At UCSC Farm
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

SANTA CRUZ, CA--With summer just around the corner, it's not too soon to start making plans for the kids, and there's lots of fun to be had at the popular Wildlands and Watering Cans Summer Day Camp at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

The camp emphasizes hands-on fun while teaching children about organic farming and gardening. Camp activities help build environmental awareness and encourage cooperation, community building, and fun in the outdoors.

Campers will participate in hands-on farming activities, including harvesting vegetables, making compost, and nourishing the soil. The camp's home base will be at the UCSC Farm, so campers will be introduced to the life of a farmer by observing daily tasks, going on hayrides, and eating farm-fresh food.

Campers will also learn the basic steps of starting and caring for a garden and will create their own garden beds, do garden-based crafts, and explore insects and herbs. Activities are designed to be educational and fun while also fostering a caretaking ethic among campers.

Field trips will include a tour of the UCSC Arboretum, Pogonip Open Space Preserve, and Natural Bridges State Beach.

Two one-week sessions are being offered. The first session will run June 28-July 2 for children ages seven to nine. The second session will run July 5-July 9 for kids ages 10 to 12. The hours are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 20 campers each session; the cost is $100 per session.

For more information or a registration form, contact John Fisher (831) 459-3248 or send e-mail to [johnfish@cats.ucsc.edu][2]. Registration forms and deposits are due by May 28. Enrollment is on a first-come, first-serve basis.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/98-99/04-99/camp.htm "Permalink to Summer Day Camp at the Farm")
