---
layout: post
title: Campus offers mathematics program for teachers
author: Tim Stephens
---

## UC Santa Cruz Offers Mathematics Program For Area Teachers

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The Monterey Bay Area Mathematics Project (MBAMP) is offering a year-long program for 6-12th grade mathematics teachers in the tricounty area of Monterey, San Benito, and Santa Cruz Counties. The program is designed to build knowledge of algebra and its prerequisites and to help teachers develop more engaging ways of teaching math.

Participants in the program, which begins with a 15-day Summer Institute at UC Santa Cruz, will receive $1,500 in support and 10 units of credit through UCSC Extension. The deadline for applications is March 7, 2000.

"The program helps teachers get their students more involved in mathematics and provides techniques for developing their students' problem-solving skills," said Judith Montgomery, co-director of MBAMP.

The Summer Institute will take place from June 29 through July 20. Its goals include learning diagnostic tools and assessments to assist in motivating student learning, studying classroom materials, and developing a leadership plan. Participants will also practice methods for peer coaching and identify and study a content area of their choice.

The program will continue throughout the 2000-01 school year and will include teacher support by the MBAMP staff, three one-day workshops in September, October, and February, and a one-day conference in May.

MBAMP, now in its 17th year, is a project of UCSC's Department of Mathematics. Bruce Cooperstein and Anthony Tromba, professors of mathematics at UCSC, are the project's coprincipal investigators. It is part of the California Mathematics Project, which sponsors institutes on numerous UC and California State University campuses.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/02-00/mbamp.htm "Permalink to Campus offers mathematics program for teachers")