---
layout: post
title: Civil rights attorney to discuss race in the new century
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## Civil Rights Attorney To Discuss Race In The New Century On April 27

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Angela Oh, a civil rights attorney and former member of President Clinton's Initiative on Race advisory panel, will give a free public talk about race and politics in the new century on Thursday, April 27, at 8 p.m. in the Stevenson Dining Hall at UC Santa Cruz. Her talk is entitled, "The Politics of Possibilities: Race and Politics in the New Century."

Oh, a former criminal defense attorney, is a leading figure in the public discussion of issues related to race, diversity, and the future of American society. Serving on the president's advisory panel, which has submitted its report to Clinton, changed Oh's life. "There aren't any silver bullets when it comes to race relations," she has said, but continued discussion is critical, particularly as voters in states like California deal with changing demographics by attacking affirmative action and bilingual education.

Oh, a self-described beneficiary of affirmative action, is a defender of affirmative action in higher education and other arenas. Oh is an instructor at UC Irvine, where she is currently teaching a course on race, politics, and policy. She is also a member of the Los Angeles City Human Relations Commission and works with the Asian Pacific American Women's Leadership Institute, the California Commission on Access to Justice, and the Western Justice Center Foundation.

"Through her life and activism, Angela Oh has linked multiple social justice issues, and we are pleased to bring her to campus," said Nancy I. Kim, director of UCSC's Asian American/Pacific Islander Resource Center, which opened one year ago. Oh is the keynote speaker for UCSC's Asian Pacific Islander Heritage Month celebration.

Oh's talk is sponsored by the UCSC Asian American/Pacific Islander Resource Center, Educational Opportunity Programs, Services to Students of Color, the UCSC Women's Center, and the Women's Studies Department.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/04-00/angela_oh.htm "Permalink to Civil rights attorney to discuss race in the new century")