---
layout: post
title: Migrant Education Program Brings Middle School Students To UCSC
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

**Editor's Advisory**

**What**: Sixty-one students and 50 parents from Watsonville's middle schools are taking part in UC Santa Cruz's "Building a Bridge to College for Migrant Students" program, a two-day event that includes classes in computer science and architectural engineering for the students, who will stay overnight in campus residence halls. Parents will attend a conference with a keynote speech by Judge John Salazar. Sessions will be offered in Spanish and English.

**When**: July 15-16, 2000

**Where**: UC Santa Cruz

Classes will be held July 15 at Porter College and College Eight. The students will stay at Porter College that night. The session for parents will be held in Room 105 of Oakes College on July 16.

**Why**: The Migrant Education Program at UCSC's Educational Partnership Center is designed to give migrant students an opportunity to experience college life through a summer college residential program that offers academic instruction and college activities. The program offers participants the opportunity to interact with UCSC undergraduate students, graduate students, faculty, and staff.

Parent workshops introduce migrant parents to the university's structure and organization. Parents receive information about admissions procedures, funding opportunities, and academic support services offered by the university.

**Who**: Students were selected from applicants who expressed an interest in mathematics and science. The program is funded jointly by the UCSC Educational Partnership Center and the Region IX Migrant Education Office.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/00-01/07-00/migrant_ed.htm "Permalink to Migrant education program brings middle school students to UCSC")
