---
layout: post
title: UCSC's annual open house on April 15
author: Jim Burns
---

## UCSC's Annual Open House To Take Place On Saturday, April 15

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The University of California, Santa Cruz, will host the Banana Slug Spring Fair on Saturday, April 15. Current and prospective students and their families, UCSC alumni, and all other friends of the campus are invited to the annual celebration, which features information booths, workshops and presentations, artistic performances, facility tours, and alumni reunions. The campus open house begins at 9 a.m. Last year's Banana Slug Spring Fair drew nearly 6,000 people to the campus.

Tours will take place at UCSC's eight individual colleges, the new Seymour Marine Discovery Center at Long Marine Laboratory, the Jack Baskin School of Engineering, the arts facilities, the Alan Chadwick Garden, and the East Field House and the new Wellness Center. Visitors may also purchase a barbecue lunch at several sites on campus.

Faculty and staff will provide in-depth workshops on academic programs, Financial Aid, Educational Opportunity Programs, how to choose a college, transferring to UCSC, and life outside the classroom. Open houses, receptions, and performances are also planned at various locations that day and evening, and a luncheon on Sunday, April 16, will honor the Women's Studies Department's founding faculty and students.

There are many alumni events planned during the weekend. Some of them require an advance RSVP and a fee. The All-Alumni Reunion Luncheon seats guests by graduation year so alumni can reconnect with their UCSC friends. This year, UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood will give special recognition to the classes of '95, '90, '85, '80, '75, and '70.

For more information about Banana Slug Spring Fair events, call the Office of Admissions at (831) 459-4008 or go to the BSSF Web page ([admissions.ucsc.edu/bssf](admissions.ucsc.edu/bssf)).

For more information about alumni events during the weekend, call the Alumni Association at (831) 459-2530.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/03-00/bssf.htm "Permalink to UCSC'sannual open house on April 15")