---
layout: post
title: David Kaun funds graduate teaching awards
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## UC Santa Cruz Economist Gives $50,000 To Fund Graduate Student Awards

SANTA CRUZ, CA--David Kaun, a professor of economics at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has worked with some very good graduate students over the years. But he was so impressed by two talented teaching assistants last fall that he has given the campus $50,000 to establish a new annual award that will recognize outstanding teaching by graduate students.

Two graduate student recipients of the new Milam-McGinty-Kaun Award will be named each year, one from the Economics Department and one from another department in the Division of Social Sciences. Each will receive a $1,000 award. The award is named after its first recipients, Garrett Milam and Matt McGinty, who are in UCSC's doctoral program in international economics. Milam and McGinty were teaching assistants last fall in Kaun's Intermediate Microeconomic Theory course.

"It was a tough course--tough for me because I hadn't taught it in a long time, and tough for the students because of the material," recalled Kaun, crediting Milam and McGinty with making major contributions to the success of the course and inspiring him to establish the endowment.

"These two wonderful young men were phenomenal in every dimension. They were so good, I just wanted to acknowledge that kind of teaching assistance."

Milam and McGinty were recognized today (Friday, June 9), during a noon luncheon for graduates of UCSC's master's and doctoral programs in economics.

"The teaching assistant's job is tough," said Kaun. "You have to be a buffer between the professors and the students. To play that role properly isn't the easiest thing in the world."

The gift is not Kaun's first. He has established a $100,000 music scholarship that will, when it is fully funded, provide full support for a clarinet player. "The arts, and music in particular, has always been my first love," said Kaun, who hopes his gifts move others to give generously.

"Andrew Carnegie once said there are only three things to do with your money, and two of them are rather stupid. He said you can leave it for the government to tax away, you can leave it to your children, or you canspend it wisely in ways you think are appropriate. For me, these contributions to the university are a wise thing to do, and fun as well."

Graduate students in anthropology, economics, education, environmental studies, politics, psychology, and sociology will be eligible for future awards.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/06-00/milam_mcginty.htm "Permalink to David Kaun funds graduate teaching awards")