---
layout: post
title: Community college students receive $20,000 scholarships to attend UCSC
author: Jennifer McNulty
---

## Twelve Community College Students Receive $20,000 Scholarships To Attend UCSC

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Regional community college graduation ceremonies will be especially festive for 12 students who have been awarded $20,000 scholarships to attend the University of California, Santa Cruz, this fall. Recipients of the Karl S. Pister Leadership Opportunity Awards are selected in recognition of their accomplishments despite adverse socioeconomic circumstances. The awards program was established in 1993 to make it easier for community college students to transfer to UCSC.

Recipients receive $10,000 scholarships for each of two years, as well as the support of a strong academic mentoring program and assistance finding paid summer work experience in a field that complements their studies.

Now in its eighth year, the scholarship program has helped dozens of community college transfer students realize their dream of a university education.

"The success of previous scholarship recipients underscores the fact that our regional community college transfer students do very well at UC Santa Cruz," said UCSC Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood. "As our campus continues to develop new programs for transfer students, these scholarships provide very tangible opportunities for the leaders of tomorrow."

The scholarship program was established by former UCSC Chancellor Karl S. Pister to increase opportunities for talented community college students who want to transfer to UCSC. The scholarships recognize students who have overcome adverse socioeconomic circumstances, who have a demonstrated commitment to assisting and improving the lives of others, and who might not otherwise be able to attend UCSC for financial reasons. Candidates are nominated by the presidents of each of 13 regional community colleges, and recipients are selected by Greenwood in consultation with the Leadership Opportunity Awards Program Screening Committee.

A $5.2 million endowment has been established to fund the program permanently. Named scholarships honor contributors of major gifts to the program.

A list of this year's recipients follows, with hometowns and college affiliations.

For more information about the scholarship program or any of the recipients, call the UCSC Public Information Office at (831) 459-2495.

* Erika Angel of Santa Cruz, Cabrillo College
* Arlene Cazares of San Jose, Mission College
* Marisa Cidre of San Jose, Evergreen Valley College
* Elizabeth Delgadillo of Gilroy, Gavilan College
* Janice Domanic of Pacific Grove, Monterey Peninsula College
* Joshua Luke of San Jose, De Anza College
* Jorge Mendez of Salinas, Hartnell College
* Ozair Mujtaba of San Mateo, College of San Mateo
* Sarah Ridout of Los Altos, Foothill College
* Katie Ross of Los Gatos, West Valley College
* Kassandra Rossiter of Milpitas, San Jose City College
* Leah-Ann Williams of South San Francisco, Skyline College

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/99-00/05-00/loa_2000.htm "Permalink to Community college students receive $20,000 scholarships to attend UCSC")