---
layout: post
title: NASA, University Of California To Form Landmark Partnership
author: [Michael Mewhinney, Elizabeth Irwin]
---
  
**NOTE TO EDITORS & NEWS DIRECTORS:** News media are invited to attend a news conference at NASA Ames Research Center on Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2000. The news conference will be held from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., (PDT) in Bldg. 3, the Moffett Training and Conference Center. News media are also invited to attend a luncheon in the conference center's main ballroom from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. (PDT). To get to Ames, take the Moffett Field exit off U.S. Highway 101. At the Moffett Field main gate, turn right into a small parking lot and enter the Visitor Badging Office to obtain entry badges. Photo ID is required. Foreign news media must provide passports or green cards for admittance.  

NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin and University of California (UC) President Richard Atkinson this week will announce a historic UC/NASA partnership to create a world-class educational R&D campus focusing on innovation and scientific discovery at the proposed NASA Research Park in the heart of Silicon Valley.

The announcement will be made during a news conference on Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2000, from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. (PDT) in the Moffett Training and Conference Center, Bldg. 3, at NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA.

"The innovations and scientific discoveries of the future will not come from NASA, industry or universities alone. They will come from us working together and making the most of the special attributes that each of us brings to the table," Goldin said. "I am delighted that NASA Ames, which has critical R&D responsibilities in information technology, biotechnology and nanotechnology, is partnering with one of the world's best public higher education systems. This partnership with UC will enhance the ability of NASA to deliver the technologies necessary for the achievement of the nation's goals in space and aeronautics, and allow America to lead and have an impact on every facet of science and technology," Goldin said.

"UC and NASA scientists will work together on advances in science and technology that will drive new industries and provide new products benefiting California's economy," said Atkinson. "UC Santa Cruz will serve as a portal to the UC system for Silicon Valley to connect UC's intellectual resources with the specific interests and needs of Silicon Valley, NASA, the state and the nation," Atkinson said.

"Our goal is to develop a world-class, shared-use R&D campus by partnering with industry, academia, and nonprofits in the NASA Research Park," said NASA Ames Research Center Director Dr. Henry McDonald. "Our collaborative research with UC will include information technology, biotechnology, planetary sciences, nanotechnology, astrobiology and education. We hope to develop unique new laboratories and research funding opportunities with our NASA Research Park partners to pursue revolutionary new technologies and to develop new ideas to improve the region's education infrastructure," McDonald said.

"This partnership will foster a world-class center for education and for research and development. Our plans include the creation and testing of new models for delivering education and conducting research that capitalize on Silicon Valley technology and the rich math and science environment at NASA Ames Research Center," said UC Santa Cruz Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood. "Through the establishment of the UC Santa Cruz Silicon Valley Center at the proposed NASA Research Park and our recently announced "Collaborative" with San Jose State University and Foothill-DeAnza Community College District, we will provide education programs that will work to bridge the digital divide and address Silicon Valley's workforce needs," Greenwood said.

The agreement between the parties refers to a Preliminary Land Use Plan for the NASA Research Park that reserves a 40-acre site for university partners, with 25 acres assured for UC in furtherance of collaborations in education, research and public service. UC plans to build a minimum of 600,000 square feet of new construction in the Research Park and to have at least 2,000 students attending classes by the end of their 10-year build-out period. UC and NASA agreed to explore the construction of housing to be provided by UC for students, staff and faculty.

NASA Ames Research Center recently announced the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) process under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) regulations to develop the land at Moffett Field under NASA ownership. The proposed developments include the area called the NASA Research Park in which the academic, industry and nonprofit partners hope to conduct their collaborative research and education programs. The University of California is conducting a similar environmental process under state law, the Environmental Impact Report (EIR). Upon the successful completion of both the EIS and EIR, a Land Use Agreement will be signed and construction will begin.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/00-01/10-00/nasa_partnership.html "Permalink to UCSC Press Release:NASA, University of California to form landmark partnership")
