---
layout: post
title: Provosts appointed, reappointed at UCSC
author: Jim Burns
---

**Four College Provosts Appointed, Two Reappointed At UCSC**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--Four UCSC faculty have been newly named to the position of college provost. The new provosts are Professor Joel Ferguson, Crown College; Associate Professor Margo Hendricks, Stevenson College; Professor David Evan Jones, Porter College. In addition, Lecturer Conn Hallinan has been appointed Associate Provost of Kresge College.

The provosts, who serve as the academic leaders of each of their colleges, have been appointed to the positions for three years by Chancellor M.R.C. Greenwood and Campus Provost John Simpson. Associate Provost Hallinan's term is two years.

In addition to the four, two of UCSC's nine college provosts--William Ladusaw at Cowell College  and Andrew Szasz of College Eight--have been reappointed for three-year terms.

All of the appointments took effect on July 1.

Three other college provosts--Campbell Leaper of College Nine, John Schechter of Merrill College, and David Anthony of Oakes College--are continuing to serve through prior appointments.

Following is a brief description of each of the new or reappointed provosts:

*Joel Ferguson, Crown College*

Ferguson joined the UCSC faculty in 1987 and has served as professor and chair of the Computer Engineering Department and associate dean of Undergraduate Affairs of the School of Engineering. He is a recipient of the National Science Foundation's Presidential Young Investigator Award. His current research interests involve strategies and algorithms for the design, test, and failure analysis of modern computer chips.

*Margo Hendricks, Stevenson College*

Hendricks joined the UCSC faculty in 1990 after a yearlong fellowship at Stanford Humanities Institute. She is an associate professor of literature and serves as director of the Office of International Education. She has been a faculty academic preceptor at Cowell College and served as chair of the Systemwide Committee on Education Abroad. She is a recipient of two Re-entry Teacher of the Year Awards. Her research and teaching areas include Renaissance English literature, Shakespeare, drama and performance, gender studies, and race theories.

*David Evan Jones, Porter College*

Jones joined the UCSC faculty in 1988 and served as chair of the Music Department from 1995 to 1998. A professor of music, he is a composer of vocal, instrumental, and computer music. He has divided his recent work among chamber operas, compositions influenced by traditional Bulgarian dance music, and a computer-assisted approach to composition. His work has been funded by the National Endowment for the Arts, the California Arts Council, and the New Hampshire Arts Council.

*Conn Hallinan, Kresge College* 

Hallinan came to UCSC in 1982 and has been teaching journalism here since that time. He also has been a working journalist and currently writes a column for the _San Francisco Examiner. _In addition to teaching, he oversees all of the UCSC on-campus and off-campus news media internship programs.

*William Ladusaw, Cowell College*

Ladusaw, a professor, has been a member of the linguistics faculty at UCSC since 1984\. He does research in linguistic semantics, the study of meaning and its relation to the grammatical structure of languages. He teaches courses in semantics and syntax at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. He has served as provost of Cowell College since 1997.

*Andrew Szasz, College Eight*

Szasz, an associate professor of sociology, came to UCSC in 1986. He has published numerous articles on regulation, worker safety and health, hazardous waste policy, the toxics movement, and environmental justice. His book, _EcoPopulism: Toxic Waste and the Movement for Environmental Justice,_ won the Association for Humanistic Sociology's book award for 1994-95 and has recently been voted one of the 10 most influential works in environmental sociology by the members of the Environment and Technology Section of the American Sociological Association. He has been provost of College Eight since 1998.

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/01-02/provosts.html "Permalink to Provosts appointed, reappointed at UCSC")