---
layout: post
title: UC Santa Cruz Is Expanding University Housing For Students  
author: Jim Burns
---

**EDITOR'S ADVISORY**

**Campus is increasing housing on campus and expanding lease agreement with Holiday Inn**

SANTA CRUZ, CA--The University of California, Santa Cruz, will add more than 700 "bed spaces" to its housing inventory this coming fall (2001). The new accommodations will result from the expansion of university-sponsored housing both on and off campus.

On campus, students will occupy new residence halls at College Nine, beginning this coming fall. In addition, relocated modular housing known as The Village is expected to come back on line in time for fall quarter. Combined, these two projects will add 558 bed spaces to UCSC's inventory of student housing.

Off campus, UC Santa Cruz and the owners of the Santa Cruz Holiday Inn (Ramco Illinois, Inc.) have reached an agreement for the university to lease the entire Holiday Inn Ocean Street property. The agreement will provide housing for 250 students, as well as short-term accommodations for faculty, staff, and other visitors to the campus. The university currently leases 83 bed spaces at the Holiday Inn, and the new agreement will increase by 167 the number of students who can be accommodated there.

To assist you in your coverage of this story, the following information is provided:

**Additional on-campus student housing planned:**
* More than 400 (407) new bed spaces are expected to be available next fall with the opening of the College Nine residence halls.
* The Village, which had provided modular housing for students on the Colleges Nine and Ten site through last spring, will reopen in time for the beginning of the fall 2001 quarter. The Village, which will be located in the Lower Quarry area of the campus, will provide housing for 151 students.
* The two projects, above, will provide on-campus housing for an additional 558 students this coming fall.
* In addition to these two projects, College Ten residence halls, also providing housing for approximately 400, will open a year later, in fall 2002.
* By spring 2003, another major project--the construction of apartments at Cowell, Stevenson, and Porter Colleges--will add an additional 600 bedspaces to UCSC's inventory of student housing.

**Agreement to lease the Holiday Inn:**
* UC Santa Cruz and Ramco Illinois, Inc., have reached an agreement that will allow the university to convert the Santa Cruz Holiday Inn into a student residence hall, combined with a university guest lodging and conference facility.
* Under the new agreement, UC Santa Cruz will lease all 172 rooms at the motel for a 10-year period, beginning this September.
* UC Santa Cruz plans to use 148 of the 172 rooms for housing undergraduate (non-freshmen) and graduate students. The 148 rooms will provide housing for 250 students (167 more than can be accommodated in the current agreement).
* The remaining rooms will be used as short-term housing for UC Santa Cruz faculty, staff, guests of the campus, and support staff.
* The university plans to honor the motel's contract with the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees union.
* Since 1998, UC Santa Cruz has leased a block of rooms from the Holiday Inn. This academic year, UC Santa Cruz is leasing 53 rooms, housing 83 students in what is called the "UCSC Inn."

**Current accommodations for UCSC students:**
* To help offset a shortage of rental housing in the surrounding community, UC Santa Cruz has increased its inventory of university-sponsored housing for undergraduates by 915 bed spaces in the past three years--from 4,233 in fall 1997 to 5,148 this past fall.
* In addition, on-campus housing includes accommodations for 82 graduate students in the campus's Graduate Student Apartments near Kresge College, apartments for approximately 250 students in Family Student Housing, and space for 50 students in the campus's RV Park.
* This year is the first that new apartments at College Nine have been occupied. The new housing is providing accommodations for 308 students.
* In addition to 83 students occupying 53 rooms at the Holiday Inn, 86 UCSC students occupy 54 apartments in university-sponsored housing that is part of the University Town Center on Pacific Avenue. (An additional 20 bed spaces in the center are reserved for UCSC Extension students enrolled in the English Language International Program.)
* The campus is housing 44 percent of its student body (47 percent of undergraduates) in university-sponsored housing (items, above), the highest percentage of any UC campus.
* In addition to students who are residing in university-sponsored housing, UC Santa Cruz has secured 166 rooms in 13 local motels participating in the Slug Housing Partnership Program. In its fourth year, this program links students with local motels, which rent rooms to students on a monthly basis during the academic year (when there is less tourist demand for rooms).

[Source](http://www1.ucsc.edu/news_events/press_releases/archive/00-01/01-01/holiday_inn.html "Permalink to UCSC Press Release:Campus expanding agreement with Holiday Inn")
